Section A: PREAMBLE
This P olicy has been issued on the basis of the Disclosur e to Inf ormation  Norm, including the inf ormation pr ovided b y You in r espect of the 
Insured Persons  in the Pr oposal F orm, any application f or insurance co ver in r espect of any Insur ed Person and any other inf ormation or details 
submitted in r elation to the Pr oposal F orm. This P olicy is a contract of insurance betw een Y ou and Us which is subject to the r eceipt of pr emium 
in full and accepted b y Us in r espect of the Insur ed Persons and the ter ms, conditions and exclusions as specified in the P olicy/ P olicy Schedule / 
Product Benefit T able of this P olicy.
Key Notes:
The ter ms listed in Section B (Definitions) and which hav e been used elsewher e in the P olicy shall hav e the meaning set out against them in 
Section B (Definitions), wher ever they appear in the P olicy. 
The P olicy Schedule shall specify which of the f ollowing co vers ar e in f orce and available f or the Insur ed Persons under the P olicy dur ing the P olicy 
Period.
Section B: DEFINITIONS
I. Standar d Definitions
1. Accident  - sudden, unf oreseen and inv oluntary ev ent caused b y exter nal, visible and violent means. 
2. AYUSH Day Car e Centr e - and includes Community Health Centr e (CHC), Pr imary Health Centr e (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, P olyclinic or 
 any such health centr e which is r egister ed with the local author ities, wher ever applicable and having facilities f or car rying out tr eatment 
 procedur es and medical or surgical/para-surgical interv entions or both under the supervision of r egister ed AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on 
 day car e basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the f ollowing cr iterion:
 i.  Having qualified r egister ed AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
 ii.  Having dedicated A YUSH therap y sections as r equired and/or has equipped operation theatr e wher e surgical pr ocedur es are to be  
  carried out;
         iii.    Maintaining daily r ecords of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s author ized r epresentativ e.
3. AYUSH Hospital  is a healthcar e facility wher ein medical/surgical/para-surgical tr eatment pr ocedur es and interv entions ar e carried out b y 
 AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) compr ising of any of the f ollowing:
 a. Central or State Go vernment A YUSH Hospital; or
 b. Teaching hospital attached to A YUSH College r ecognized b y the Central Go vernment/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council 
  for Homeopathy;   or
 c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcar e facility of any r ecognized system of medicine, r egister ed with the 
  local author ities, wher ever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified r egister ed AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must 
  comply with all the f ollowing cr iterion:
  i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
  ii. Having qualified A YUSH Medical Practitioner in charge r ound the clock;
  iii. Having dedicated A YUSH therap y sections as r equired and/or has equipped operation theatr e wher e surgical pr ocedur es are to be 
   carried out;
  iv. Maintaining daily r ecords of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company's author ized r epresentativ e.
4. Cashless F acility  - A facility extended b y the insur er to the insur ed wher e the payments, of the costs of tr eatment undergone b y the 
 insured in accor dance with the policy ter ms and conditions, ar e directly made to the Netw ork Pr ovider b y the insur er to the extent pr e-
 author ization is appr oved.
5. Condition Pr ecedent  - a policy ter m or condition upon which the Insur er’s liability under the policy is conditional upon.
6. Congenital Anomaly  - a condition which is pr esent since birth, and which is abnor mal with r eference to f orm, structur e or position.
 a. Internal Congenital Anomaly  
  Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body . 
 b. Exter nal Congenital Anomaly    
  Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body . 
7. Cumulativ e Bonus  - any incr ease or addition in the Sum Insur ed granted b y the insur er without any associated incr ease in pr emium. 
8. Day Car e Treatment  - medical tr eatment, and/or surgical pr ocedur e which is:
 i. Undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a hospital/day car e centr e in less than 24 hrs because of technological advancement, 
  and
 ii. Which w ould hav e otherwise r equired hospitalization of mor e than 24 hours.
 Treatment nor mally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
9. Day Car e Centr e - any institution established f or day car e treatment of illness and / or injur ies or a medical setup within a hospital 
 and which has been r egister ed with the local author ities, wher ever applicable, and is under supervision of a r egister ed and qualified medical 
 practitioner AND must comply with all minimum cr iterion as under: - 
 i) Has qualified nursing staff under its emplo yment;
 ii) Has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; 
 iii) Has fully equipped operation theatr e of its o wn wher e surgical pr ocedur es are carried out;
 iv) Maintains daily r ecords of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s author ized personnel.Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct) - P olicy T erms and ConditionsAditya Birla Health Insur ance
Company Ltd.(A part of Aditya Birla Capital Ltd.)
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.10. Dental T reatment  - a tr eatment r elated to teeth or structur es supporting teeth including examinations, fillings (wher e appr opriate), 
 crowns, extractions and surgery .
11. Disclosur e to inf ormation nor m - The P olicy shall be v oid and all pr emium paid ther eon shall be f orfeited to the Company in the ev ent of 
 misrepresentation, mis-descr iption or non-disclosur e of any mater ial fact.
12. Domiciliary Hospitalization  - medical tr eatment f or an illness/disease/ injury which in the nor mal course w ould r equire care and 
 treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the f ollowing cir cumstances:
 i)  The condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be r emoved to a hospital, or
 ii)  The patient takes tr eatment at home on account of non-availability of r oom in a hospital.
13. Emergency Car e - management f or an illness or injury which r esults in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and  
 requires immediate car e by a medical practitioner to pr event death or ser ious long ter m impair ment of the insur ed person ’s health.
14. Grace P eriod - the specified per iod of time immediately f ollowing the pr emium due date dur ing which a payment can be made to 
 renew or continue a policy in f orce without loss of continuity benefits such as waiting per iods and co verage of pr e-existing diseases. 
 Coverage is not available f or the per iod for which no pr emium is r eceiv ed.
15. Hospital  - any institution established f or in- patient car e and day car e treatment of illness and/or injur ies and which has been 
 register ed as a hospital with the local author ities under Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under enactments 
 specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act Or complies with all minimum cr iteria as under:
 i)  Has qualified nursing staff under its emplo yment r ound the clock;
 ii)  Has at least 10 in-patient beds in to wns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 in-patient beds in all other places;
 iii)  Has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge r ound the clock;
 iv)  Has a fully equipped operation theatr e of its o wn wher e surgical pr ocedur es are carried out;
 v)  Maintains daily r ecords of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s author ized personnel;
16. Hospitalization  - admission in a Hospital f or a minimum per iod of 24 consecutiv e ‘In- patient Car e ‘hours except f or specified 
 procedur es/tr eatments, wher e such admission could be f or a per iod of less than 24 consecutiv e hours. 
17. Illness  - a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impair ment of nor mal physiological function and r equires 
 medical tr eatment. 
 (a)  Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to r espond quickly to tr eatment which aims to r eturn the 
  person to his or her state of health immediately bef ore suff ering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full r ecovery
 (b)  Chronic condition - A chr onic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or mor e of the f ollowing character istics:
  1.  It needs ongoing or long-ter m monitor ing thr ough consultations, examinations, check-ups, and/or tests;
  2.  It needs ongoing or long- ter m contr ol or r elief of symptoms;
  3.  It requires rehabilitation f or the patient or f or the patient to be specially trained to cope with it;
  4.  It continues indefinitely;
  5.  It recurs or is likely to r ecur.
18. Intensiv e Car e Unit (ICU)  - an identified section, war d or wing of a hospital which is under the constant supervision of a dedicated 
 medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped f or the continuous monitor ing and tr eatment of patients who ar e in a cr itical 
 condition, or r equire life support facilities and wher e the lev el of car e and supervision is considerably mor e sophisticated and intensiv e than 
 in the or dinary and other war ds.
19. ICU (Intensiv e Car e Unit)  Charges  - the amount charged b y a Hospital to wards ICU expenses which shall include the expenses f or  
 ICU bed, general medical support services pr ovided to any ICU patient including monitor ing devices, cr itical car e nursing and intensivist 
 charges.
20. Injury  - accidental physical bodily har m excluding illness or disease solely and dir ectly caused b y exter nal, violent, visible and evident 
 means which is v erified and certified b y a Medical Practitioner .
21. Inpatient Car e - treatment f or which the insur ed person has to stay in a hospital f or mor e than 24 hours f or a co vered ev ent. 
22. Medical Advice  - any consultation or advice fr om a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any pr escription or f ollow- up 
 prescription.
23. Medical Expenses  - those expenses that an Insur ed Person has necessar ily and actually incur red for medical tr eatment on account of 
 Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these ar e no mor e than w ould hav e been payable if the Insur ed Person 
 had not been insur ed and no mor e than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality w ould hav e charged f or the same medical tr eatment. 
24. Medically Necessary T reatment  - any tr eatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which:
 I) Is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suff ered by the insur ed; 
 ii)  Must not exceed the lev el of car e necessary to pr ovide saf e, adequate and appr opriate medical car e in scope, duration or intensity;
 iii)  Must hav e been pr escribed b y a medical practitioner;
 iv) Must conf orm to the pr ofessional standar ds widely accepted in inter national medical practice or b y the medical community in India.
25. Medical Practitioner  - a person who holds a valid r egistration fr om the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or 
 Council f or Indian Medicine or f or Homeopathy set up b y the Go vernment of India or a State Go vernment and is ther eby entitled to practice 
 medicine within its jur isdiction; and is acting within its scope and jur isdiction of license.
26. Migration  - the r ight accor ded to health insurance policyholders (including all members under family co ver and members of gr oup 
 health insurance policy), to transf er the cr edit gained f or pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insur er.
27. Mater nity Expenses  -
 i)  Medical tr eatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliv eries and caesar ean sections incur red dur ing 
  hospitalization)
 ii)  Expenses to wards lawful medical ter mination of pr egnancy dur ing the policy per iod.
28. New Bor n Bab y - bab y born dur ing the P olicy P eriod and is aged upto 90 days.
29. Netw ork Pr ovider - Hospitals or health car e providers enlisted b y an insur er, TP A or jointly b y an Insur er and TP A to pr ovide medical 
 services to an insur ed by a cashless facility .
30. Non- Netw ork Pr ovider - any hospital, day car e centr e or other pr ovider that is not part of the netw ork.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.31. Notification of Claim  - the pr ocess of intimating a claim to the insur er or TP A through any of the r ecognized modes of 
 communication.
32. OPD tr eatment  - the one in which the Insur ed visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation r oom f or diagnosis and 
 treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner . The Insur ed is not admitted as a day car e or in-patient.
33. Pre-Existing Disease (PED)  - any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
 a) That is/ar e diagnosed b y a physician within 48 months pr ior to the eff ective date of the policy issued b y the insur er or its r einstatement 
  or
 b) For which medical advice or tr eatment was r ecommended b y, or r eceiv ed from, a physician within 48 months pr ior to the eff ective date 
  of the policy issued b y the insur er or its r einstatement.
34. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses  - medical expenses incur red dur ing pr e-defined number of days pr eceding the hospitalization 
 of the Insur ed Person, pr ovided that:
 i. Such Medical Expenses ar e incur red for the same condition f or which the Insur ed Person ’s Hospitalization was r equired, and 
 ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim f or such Hospitalization is admissible b y the Insurance Company .
35. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses  - medical expenses incur red dur ing pr e-defined number of days immediately after the 
 insured person is discharged fr om the hospital pr ovided that:
 i. Such Medical Expenses ar e for the same condition f or which the insur ed person ’s hospitalization was r equired, and 
 ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim f or such hospitalization is admissible b y the insurance company .
36. Portability  - the r ight accor ded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members under family co ver), to transf er the 
 credit gained f or pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, fr om one insur er to another insur er.
37. Qualified Nurse  - a person who holds a valid r egistration fr om the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in 
 India.
38. Reasonable and Customary Charges  - the charges f or services or supplies, which ar e the standar d charges f or the specific pr ovider 
 and consistent with the pr evailing charges in the geographical ar ea for identical or similar services, taking into account the natur e of the 
 illness / injury inv olved.
39. Renewal  - the ter ms on which the contract of insurance can be r enew ed on mutual consent with a pr ovision of grace per iod for 
 treating the r enewal continuous f or the pur pose of gaining cr edit f or pre-existing diseases, time- bound exclusions and f or all waiting 
 periods.
40. Room Rent  - the amount charged b y a Hospital to wards Room and Boar ding expenses and shall include the associated medical 
 expenses.
41. Surgery or Surgical Pr ocedur e - manual and / or operativ e procedur e (s) r equired for treatment of an illness or injury, cor rection of 
 deformities and def ects, diagnosis and cur e of diseases, r elief fr om suff ering and pr olongation of lif e, perf ormed in a hospital or day car e 
 centr e by a medical practitioner .
42. Unproven/Exper imental tr eatment  - the tr eatment including drug exper imental therap y which is not based on established medical 
 practice in India, is tr eatment exper imental or unpr oven.
II.  Specific Definitions
43. Age or Aged  shall mean the completed age as on last birthday, and which means completed y ears as at the P olicy Start date.
44. Activity of Daily Living
 i.  Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or sho wer (including getting into and out of the bath or sho wer) or wash satisfactor ily by other 
  means;
 ii.  Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secur e and unfasten all gar ments and, as appr opriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other 
  surgical appliances;
 iii.  Transf erring: the ability to mo ve from a bed to an upr ight chair or wheelchair and vice v ersa;
  iv.  Mobility: the ability to mo ve indoors fr om room to r oom on lev el surfaces;
 v.  Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bo wel and bladder functions so as to maintain a satisfactory lev el of 
  personal hygiene;
 vi.  Feeding: the ability to f eed oneself once f ood has been pr epared and made available.
45. Ambulance  - a road v ehicle or air craft operated b y a licenced/author ised service pr ovider and equipped f or the transport and 
 paramedical tr eatment of the person r equiring medical attention.
46. Annexur e - a document attached and marked as Annexur e to this P olicy
47. Any Room  - any category r oom in a Hospital.
48. Ayush T reatment  shall mean to the medical and / or hospitalization tr eatments giv en under ‘A yurveda, Y oga and Natur opathy, Unani, 
 Siddha and  Homeopathy systems.
49. Assistance Service Pr ovider means the service pr ovider specified in the P olicy Schedule and/or Certificate of Insurance, appointed b y Us 
 from time to time.
50. Associated Medical Expenses  Shall include the applicable nursing charges, operation theatr e charges, f ees of Medical Practitioner 
 including surgeon/ anesthetist/ specialist within the same Hospital wher e the Insur ed Person has been admitted. “Associated Medical 
 Expenses” does not include cost of phar macy and consumables, cost of implants and medical devices and cost of diagnostics.
51 City of Residence  Shall mean and includes any city, to wn or village in which the Insur ed Person is cur rently r esiding in India and as 
 specified in the Insur ed Person ’s cor responding addr ess in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
52 Common Car rier Shall means any commer cial public airline operating under license issued b y the appr opriate author ity for transportation of 
 passengers.
53. Dependent Child  shall mean a child (natural or legally adopted or stepchild), who is financially dependent on Y ou does not hav e his / her 
 independent sour ce of income, is up to the Age of 25 y ears.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.54 Diagnosis  shall means diagnosis b y a Medical Practitioner, supported b y clinical, radiological, histological, histo-pathological and laboratory 
 evidence and also surgical evidence wher ever applicable. 
55. Emergency  shall mean a ser ious medical condition or symptom r esulting fr om Injury or Illness which ar ises suddenly and unexpectedly, and 
 requires immediate car e and tr eatment b y a Medical Practitioner, generally r eceiv ed within 24 hours of onset to av oid jeopar dy to lif e or  
 serious long ter m impair ment of the Insur ed Person ’s health, until stabilisation at which time this medical condition or symptom is not 
 consider ed an Emergency anymor e.
56. Empanelled Service Pr oviders  - service pr ovider (Doctor’s clinic, Diagnostic centr e, Medicine, Drug v endor, medical service pr ovider 
 and Home car e treatment pr ovider) enlisted b y Us, TP A or jointly b y Us and TP A to pr ovide OPD medical services to an insur ed by a cashless 
 facility .
57. Family Floater P olicy - a policy named as a F amily Floater P olicy in the P olicy Schedule under which the family members named as 
 Insured Persons in the P olicy Schedule ar e covered. The r elationships co vered in a F amily Floater P olicy ar e as f ollows:
 I) Self.
 ii) legally mar ried spouse as long as they continue to be mar ried.
 iii) Dependent Childr en (up to 4) (i.e. natural or legally adopted) betw een the age 3 months to 25 y ears.
58 Immediate F amily Member  Shall mean an Insur ed Person ’s lawful spouse, Dependent Childr en and par ents only;
59. IRDAI  - the Insurance Regulatory and Dev elopment Author ity of India.
60. Individual P olicy - A policy named as an Individual P olicy in the P olicy Schedule under which one or mor e Persons ar e covered as 
 Insured Persons. The f ollowing r elationships shall be co vered in an Individual policy: Self, legally mar ried spouse as long as they continue to 
 be mar ried, son, daughter, br other, sister, grandson, granddaughter, son in-law, daughter in-law, br other in-law, sister in- law, nephew, 
 niece. 
61. Insured Person  - the person(s) named in the P olicy Schedule who ar e covered under this P olicy and in r espect of whom the 
 appropriate pr emium has been r eceiv ed.
62.  Mater ial facts  - all r elevant inf ormation sought b y the company in the pr oposal f orm and other connected documents to enable it to
 take inf ormed decision in the context of underwr iting the r isk.
63. Monthly Pr emium  Shall mean the applicable annual pr emium with r espect to the Insur ed Person(s) split in 12 months in equal pr oportion 
 only f or the pur pose of calculation of Health Retur ns Benefit under this P olicy
64. Policy - this T erms & Conditions document, the Pr oposal F orm, Policy Schedule, Add-On Benefit Details (if applicable) and Annexur es 
 which f orm part of the P olicy contract including endorsements, as amended fr om time to time which f orm part of the P olicy contract and 
 shall be r ead together . 
65. Policy P eriod - The per iod betw een the start date and the expiry date of the P olicy as specified in the P olicy Schedule or the date of 
 cancellation of this P olicy, whichev er is earlier .
66. Policy Y ear - a per iod of 12 consecutiv e months commencing fr om the start date or any anniv ersary .
67. Policy Schedule  - Schedule attached to and f orming part of this P olicy mentioning the details of the Insur ed Persons, the Sum 
 Insured, the per iod and the limits to which benefits under the P olicy ar e subject to, including any Annexur es and/or endorsements, made to 
 or on it fr om time to time, and if mor e than one, then the latest in time.
68. Single Pr ivate A/C Room  - a basic (most economical of all accommodation) category of single r oom in a Hospital with air -
 conditioning facility wher e a single patient is accommodated and which has/does not hav e an attached toilet (lavatory and/or bath). 
69. Shared Room  A basic (cheapest) category of Shar ed Room in a Hospital with/without air -conditioning with T wo Or thr ee patient beds.
70. Start Date  of the P olicy means the inception date of the cur rent P olicy P eriod as specified in the P olicy Schedule. 
71. Sum Insur ed -
 a.  For an Individual P olicy, the amount specified in the P olicy Schedule against an Insur ed Person which r epresents Our maximum, total 
  and cumulativ e liability f or any and all claims ar ising under any and all Benefits dur ing a P olicy Y ear in r espect of that Insur ed Person.
 b.  For a F amily Floater P olicy, the amount specified in the P olicy Schedule which r epresents Our maximum, total and cumulativ e liability f or 
  any and all claims ar ising under any and all Benefits dur ing a P olicy Y ear in r espect of any and all Insur ed Persons.
72. Third Party Administrator (TP A) - A Company r egister ed under the IRDAI (Thir d Party Administrators – Health Services) Regulations 2016 
 (as may be amended, r eplaced or modified) b y   the IRDAI, and is engaged b y an insur er, for a f ee or b y whatev er name called and as may be 
 mentioned in the health services agr eement, f or providing health services. The updated list of TP As (along with complete addr ess and 
 contact numbers) shall be A vailable on Our w ebsite. 
73. We/Our/Us  - Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited.
74. You/Your/P olicyholder  - the person named in the P olicy Schedule as the policyholder and who has concluded this P olicy with Us.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.Section C: BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY
Section I: Basic Co vers:
Benefits under this Section C.I ar e subject to the ter ms, conditions and exclusions of this P olicy. The Sum Insur ed and/or the sub-limit f or each 
Benefit under Section C.I is specified against that Benefit in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy. Payment of the Benefit 
shall be subject to the availability of the Sum Insur ed and the applicable sub-limit f or that Benefit.
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incur red to wards medical tr eatment taken b y the Insur ed Person dur ing the P olicy 
Period for an Illness or Injury descr ibed in the Benefits belo w if it is contracted or sustained b y an Insur ed Person dur ing the P olicy P eriod.
All claims must be made in accor dance with the pr ocedur e set out in Section F .1. Claims paid under this Section will impact the Sum Insur ed and 
eligibility f or No Claim Bonus And Super No Claim Bonus.
(a) In-patient Hospitalization:
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the Medical Expenses f or one or mor e of the f ollowing ar ising out of an Insur ed Person ’s Hospitalization dur ing the P olicy 
 Period following an Illness or Injury diagnosed  dur ing the P olicy P eriod:  
 (i) Reasonable and Customary Charges f or Room Rent f or accommodation in Hospital r oom and other boar ding charges up to the limits as 
  specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy;
 (ii) ICU Charges up to the limits as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy;
 (iii) Operation theatr e expenses;
 (iv) Medical Practitioner’s f ees, including f ees of surgeon, consultants, physicians, specialists and anaesthetists tr eating the Insur ed Person;
 (v) Qualified Nurses charges;
 (vi) Medicines, drugs and other allo wable consumables pr escribed b y the tr eating Medical Practitioner;
 (vii) Investigativ e tests or diagnostic pr ocedur es dir ectly r elated to the Injury/Illness f or which the Insur ed Person is Hospitalized;
 (viii) Anaesthesia, blood, oxygen and blood transfusion charges; Cost of P acemaker, Diagnostic mater ials and X rays, Dialysis, Chemotherap y, 
  radiotherap y;
 (ix) Surgical appliances and allo wable pr osthetic devices r ecommended b y the attending Medical Practitioner that ar e used intra operativ ely 
  during a Surgical Pr ocedur e.
 a.1  Moder n Treatment co verage
  We shall co ver the Medical Expenses f or the f ollowing moder n treatment pr ocedur es under section C .I. a. In-P atient Hospitalization or 
  C.1.c Day Car e Treatment ar ising out of an Insur ed Person ’s Hospitalization f ollowing an Illness or Injury that’s diagnosed dur ing the 
  Policy P eriod up to the Sum Insur ed specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
  a.  Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity f ocused ultrasound)
  b.  Balloon Sinuplasty
  c.  Deep Brain stimulation
  d.  Oral chemotherap y
  e.  Immunotherap y - Monoclonal Antibody to be giv en as injection
  f.  Intra vitr eal injections
  g.  Robotic surger ies
  h.  Stereotactic radio surger ies
  i.  Bronchical Ther moplasty
  j.  Vaporisation of the pr ostrate (Gr een laser tr eatment or holmium laser tr eatment)
  k.  IONM - (Intra Operativ e Neur o Monitor ing)
  l.  Stem cell therap y: Hematopoietic stem cells f or bone mar row transplant f or haematological conditions to be co vered. 
 a.2  HIV / AIDS and STD Co ver
  We shall co ver the Medical Expenses incur red by the Insur ed Person to wards treatment taken dur ing In-patient Hospitalisation (C.I.a) of 
  the Insur ed Person ar ising out of condition caused b y or associated with HIV or HIV r elated illnesses, including AIDS or AIDS r elated 
  Complex (ARC) and/or any mutant der ivativ e or var iations ther e of or sexually transmitted diseases (STD) dur ing the P olicy P eriod up to 
  the Sum Insur ed specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
 a.3  Mental Car e Cover
  We shall co ver the Medical Expenses incur red by the Insur ed Person to wards treatment taken dur ing In-patient hospitalisation (C.I.a) of 
  the Insur ed Person ar ising out of a condition caused b y or associated to medical illness, str ess, anxiety, depr ession or a medical 
  condition impacting mental health of the Insur ed Person ) dur ing the P olicy P eriod up to the Sum Insur ed specified in the P olicy 
  Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy. 
  Conditions:
  (i) The Hospitalization of the Insur ed Person is medically necessary and f ollows the wr itten advice of a Medical Practitioner . 
  (ii) If the Insur ed Person is admitted in a r oom category/limit that is higher than the one that is specified in the P olicy Schedule / 
   Product Benefit T able of this P olicy, then the Insur ed Person shall bear a rateable pr oportion of the Room Rent (and the total 
    Associated Medical Expenses, including sur charge or taxes ther eon) in the pr oportion of the diff erence betw een the Room Rent of 
   the entitled r oom category to the Room Rent actually incur red. 
  (iii) Proportionate deductions ar e not applicable f or ICU charges.
  (iv) Such pr oportionate deductions, if any, will not be applied in r espect of the Hospitals which do not f ollow diff erential billing, or f or 
   those Associated Medical Expenses in r espect of which diff erential billing is not adopted based on the r oom category .
(b)  Daily Cash Benefit (Shar ed Accommodation) 
 What is co vered.
 If we hav e accepted a claim under section C.I.(a) (In-patient Hospitalization) and y ou hav e opted f or a shar ed accommodation dur ing 
 hospitalisation then w e shall pay the daily cash benefit specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able, f or each continuous and 
 completed per iod of 24 hours of hospitalisation, dur ing the P olicy P eriod for treatment of an Illness/Injury .  
 What is not co vered
  Daily Cash Benefit f or time spent b y the Insur ed Person in an intensiv e care unit.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.(c) Day Car e Treatment: 
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the Medical Expenses incur red on the Insur ed Person ’s Day Car e Treatment, up to the Sum Insur ed as specified in the P olicy 
 Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy, dur ing the P olicy P eriod following an Illness/Injury that diagnosed dur ing the P olicy P eriod.
 Conditions
 (i) The Day Car e Treatment is medically necessary tr eatment and f ollows the wr itten advice of a Medical Practitioner;
 (ii) The medical expenses ar e incur red, including f or any pr ocedur e undertaken b y an insur ed person as Day Car e Treatment which 
  requires a per iod of specialized observation or car e after completion of the pr ocedur e
 What is not co vered
 (i) OPD tr eatment is not co vered under this Benefit.
(d) Pre – hospitalization Medical Expenses: 
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver on a r eimbursement basis, up to the Sum Insur ed for the number of days in accor dance with the limits specified in the P olicy 
 Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy, the Insur ed Person ’s Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses incur red in r espect of an Illness/ 
 Injury that’s diagnosed dur ing the P olicy P eriod.
 Conditions
 (i) We hav e accepted a claim f or In-patient Hospitalization under Section C.I.(a) or Day Car e Treatment under Section C.I.(c) or Domiciliary 
  Hospitalization under Section C.I. (f).(a) or Home T reatment C.I. (f) b.  f or the same Illness/Injury;
 (ii) The date of admission to Hospital f or the pur pose of this Benefit shall be the date of the Insur ed Person ’s first admission to the 
  Hospital in r elation to the same Illness/ Injury . 
(e)  Post – hospitalization Medical Expenses:  
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver on a r eimbursement basis, up to the Sum Insur ed for the number of days specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit 
 Table of this P olicy, the Insur ed Person ’s Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incur red following an Illness or Injury that occurs dur ing the 
 Policy P eriod.  
 Conditions
 (i) We hav e accepted a claim f or In-patient Hospitalization under Section C.I.(a) or Day Car e Treatment under Section C.I.(d) or Domiciliary 
  Hospitalization under Section C.I.(f).(a) or Home T reatment C.I.(f).(b)  f or the same Illness/Injury;
 (ii) The date of discharge fr om Hospital f or the pur pose of this Benefit shall be the date of the Insur ed Person ’s discharge fr om Hospital in 
  relation to the same Illness/ Injury . 
(f) a. Domiciliary Hospitalization:
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the Medical Expenses incur red for the Insur ed Person ’s Domiciliary Hospitalization, up to the Sum Insur ed as specified in the 
 Policy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy, dur ing the P olicy P eriod following an Illness or Injury that’s diagnosed dur ing the 
 Policy P eriod.  
 Conditions
 (i) The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues f or at least 3 consecutiv e days in which case w e will make payment under this Benefit in 
  respect of Medical Expenses incur red from the first day of Domiciliary Hospitalization;
 (ii) The tr eating Medical Practitioner confir ms in wr iting that Domiciliary Hospitalization was medically necessary and the Insur ed Person ’s 
  condition was such that the Insur ed Person could not be transf erred to a Hospital OR the Insur ed Person satisfies Us that a Hospital bed 
  was unavailable;
 (iii) If a claim is accepted under this Benefit, then W e shall pay Pr e-Hospitalization Medical Expenses and P ost-Hospitalization Medical 
  Expenses under Section C.I.(d) and Section C.I.(e) r espectiv ely for the same Illness/Injury .
 b. Home T reatment:
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the tr eatment expenses up to the limits as specified in the policy schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able of this policy incur red by 
 the insur ed person to wards medically necessary tr eatment taken at his/her home f or illnesses/injur ies that’s diagnosed dur ing the policy 
 period on cashless basis availed thr ough Our empanelled home car e treatment pr oviders.
 For the pur pose of this section Home T reatment shall means. Home Car e Treatment means tr eatment availed b y the Insur ed Person at 
 home, which in nor mal course w ould r equire care and tr eatment at a hospital but is actually taken at home pr ovided that
 a)  The Medical practitioner advices the Insur ed person to undergo tr eatment at home.
 b)  There is a continuous activ e line of tr eatment with monitor ing of the health status b y a medical practitioner f or each day thr ough the 
  duration of the home car e treatment.
 c)  Daily monitor ing chart including r ecords of tr eatment administer ed duly signed b y the tr eating doctor is maintained. 
 Conditions
 (i) Requisite pr e-author isation is obtained fr om our Empanelled homecar e treatment pr ovider f or the said Illness/Injury .
 (ii) OPD T reatment is not co vered under this Benefit.
 (iii) Condition specified in the section C.I.A (Inpatient hospitalization) shall also be applicable f or this section f .b(Home T reatment)
 (iv) Insured Person may avail a tr eatment in a netw ork Hospital under Section C.I.(a) (Inpatient Hospitalisation) in case that Pr e-
  Author isation is not r eceiv ed by the Insur ed Person(s) fr om Empanelled home car e treatment pr oviders, as per the ter ms and conditions 
  of Section C.I.(a) (Inpatient Hospitalisation).
 (v) We do not assume any liability to wards, and shall not be r esponsible f or any actual or alleged er rors, omissions or r epresentations made 
  by any Medical Practitioner and/or Empanelled homecar e treatment pr ovider or in any service under this Benefit or f or any 
  consequences of actions taken or not taken in r eliance ther eon.
 (vi) The exclusion no. 52 as specified in Annexur e I – Non Medical Expenses ar e waiv ed off to the extent of this Benefit(s) as specified in 
  this Section C.I.(f).(b) (Home T reatment).
 (vii) We do not assume any liability to wards any additional or incidental charges/expenses, including but not limited to any charges to wards 
  breakage, damage, deposit f or equipment, and equipment transportation. All such charges/expenses shall be bor ne by the Insur ed 
  Person.
 (viii) The f oregoing home tr eatment services ar e provided thr ough Empanelled homecar e treatment Pr ovider in selected cities only . Please 
  contact Us or r efer to Our w ebsite f or updated list of cities wher e home tr eatment service is pr ovided.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.(g) Road Ambulance Co ver: 
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the r easonable and customary charges incur red up to the limits as specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of 
 this P olicy, to wards transportation of the Insur ed Person b y road ambulance f or any emergency illness/injury diagnosed dur ing the policy 
 period pr ovided that 
 (i)  The medical condition of the insur ed person r equires immediate ambulance services fr om the place of occur rence of an Emergency to a 
  nearest Hospital and/or 
 (ii)  From the existing hospital, if the Medical Practitioner certifies in wr iting that It is medically necessary to transf er the Insur ed person to 
  another hospital due to lack of super specialist tr eatment in the existing hospital or to a diagnostic centr e dur ing the course of 
  Hospitalization f or advanced diagnostic tr eatment in cir cumstances wher e such facility is not available in the existing Hospital.
 Conditions
 (i)  The Ambulance/ healthcar e service pr ovider is duly r egister ed;
 (ii)  We hav e accepted a claim f or In-patient Hospitalization under Section C.I.(a) and or Day Car e Treatment under Section C.I.(c) abo ve for 
  the same Illness/Injury;
 What is not co vered
 Any expenses in r elation to transportation of the Insur ed Person fr om Hospital to the Insur ed Person ’s residence ar e not payable under this 
 Benefit.  
(h) Organ Donor Expenses: 
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the Medical Expenses, up to the limits as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy, incur red by 
 or in r espect of the organ donor, f or an organ transplant Surgery accepted b y Us under Section C.I.(a) (In-patient hospitalization) solely 
 towards the harv esting of the organ donated.  
 Conditions
 (i) The organ donation conf orms to The T ransplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ is f or the use of the Insur ed Person;
 (ii) The Insur ed Person is the r ecipient of the organ so donated b y the organ donor;
 (iii) The organ transplant is medically necessary f or the Insur ed Person as certified b y a Medical Practitioner;
 What is not co vered
 (i) Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses or P ost-Hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ donor .
 (ii) Screening expenses of the organ donor .
 (iii) Any expenses f or treatment or any complication as a r esult of harv esting fr om the organ donor .
 (iv) Costs associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ.
 (v) Expenses r elated to organ transportation or pr eservation.
(i) AYUSH Co ver
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver Reasonable and Customary charges on a r eimbursement basis, up to the Sum Insur ed as specified in the P olicy Schedule / 
 Product Benefit T able of this P olicy, to wards the Medical Expenses   incur red by and in r espect of medically necessary In-patient 
 Hospitalization incur red with r espect to the Insur ed Person ’s AYUSH T reatment undergone in any A YUSH Hospital/A YUSH Day car e centr e.  
 What is not co vered
 (i)   The Pr e-Hospitalization Medical Expenses and P ost- Hospitalization Medical Expenses r elated to A YUSH T reatments ar e not co vered in 
  this Benefit
 (ii) Outpatient T reatment 
 (iii) Treatment taken outside India.
(j)   Binge Refill
 What is co vered
 If the P olicy Sum Insur ed along with accumulated No Claim Bonus (if any), Super No Claim Bonus (if any), is completely exhausted or is 
 insufficient f or co vering a claim as a r esult of pr evious claims, then W e shall pr ovide f or a r efill of the Sum Insur ed, unlimited times dur ing 
 the P olicy Y ear up to the limits as specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy. 
 Conditions
 (i) A claim shall be admissible under this Benefit only if the claim is admissible under In-patient Hospitalization under Section C.I.(a) or 
  Day Car e Treatment under Section C.I.(c) or Section C.I.(i) (A YUSH Co ver) or Section C.I.(f).(a) (Domiciliary Hospitalization) & C.I.(f).(b)  
  Home T reatment or Section C.I.(h) (Organ Donor Expenses) ar ising in that P olicy Y ear for any or all Insur ed Person(s). 
 (ii) The Refill of Sum Insur ed shall be available f or all subsequent claims also and to any Illness/Injury (including its complications) f or 
  which a claim has been admitted f or the Insur ed Person dur ing that P olicy Y ear. 
 (iii) The Refill of the Sum Insur ed shall apply to the first claim in the P olicy Y ear
 (iv) Our total, maximum liability under a single claim under this Benefit shall not be mor e than the Sum Insur ed. 
 (v) The Refill Sum Insur ed shall not be consider ed while calculating the No Claim Bonus or the Super No Claim Bonus. 
 (vi) In case of an Individual P olicy, Refill of the Sum Insur ed is available to each Insur ed Person and can be utilised b y Insur ed Persons who 
  are covered under the P olicy.
 (vii) In case of a F amily Floater P olicy, the r efill of Sum Insur ed shall be available on a floater basis f or all Insur ed Persons in the family that 
  are covered under the P olicy.
 (viii) If the Refill of Sum Insur ed is not utilised in a P olicy Y ear, it shall not be car ried forwar d to any subsequent P olicy Y ear.
(k)   Mater nity Expense
 What is co vered
         W e shall co ver Mater nity Expenses up to the limit specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy after a waiting 
 period of 36 months fr om the inception of the 1st policy wher e mater nity co ver is available & r enew ed with Us without any br eak (continuity 
 benefit in r espect of the "W aiting P eriods" shall not be available f or this benefit in case of portability/migration if the erstwhile policy did 
 not pr ovide f or such mater nity co verage).        
         Co verage under this Benefit shall include:
         (i)  Medical Expenses f or a deliv ery of a child (including caesar ean section) or lawful medical ter mination of pr egnancy up to a maximum of 
  2 events in the lif etime of the Insur ed Person including: 
           (a)  2 deliv eries (including twins) or 
           (b)  2 terminations or
           (c)  1 deliv ery (including twins) and 1 ter mination
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.         (ii)  Pre or P ost - Natal Mater nity Expenses; 
 (iii) The co verage under this Benefit will be o ver and abo ve the base policy Sum Insur ed. Any claim under this Benefit shall not impact the 
  Opted Sum Insur ed, No Claim Bonus & Super No Claim Bonus (if opted).
 Conditions 
 - This Benefit is available f or You or Y our spouse pr ovided Y ou and Y our spouse, both ar e covered under the same P olicy f or a continued 
  period of 36 months.
 - Minimum Age at entry of the f emale insur ed is Age 18 to 45 Y ears, ho wever claims can be made at any age ev en after Age 45 Y ears.
 - Our maximum liability per pr egnancy will be subject to the limits specified in the P olicy Schedule.
 What is not co vered
 (i) Medical Expenses f or ectopic pr egnancy . However, these expenses will be co vered under In-patient T reatment under C.I.(a) (In-P atient 
  Hospitalization);. 
 (ii) Any Pr e-Hospitalization Medical Expenses or P ost – Hospitalization Medical Expenses under Section C.I.(d) (Pr e-Hospitalization Medical 
  Expenses) and C.I.(e) (P ost-Hospitalization Medical Expenses), abo ve will not be co vered under this Benefit, 
 (iii) Any r efill of Sum Insur ed under Benefit (Section C.I. j) (Binge Refill) will not be available f or co verage under this Benefit.  
  Note: Section D.I .18 is not applicable.
 (i) New Bor n Bab y Expenses
  What is co vered
  We shall co ver medical expenses to wards the tr eatment of the New Bor n Bab y as an In-patient, within the limit of the Mater nity Sum 
  Insured, while the Insur ed Person is Hospitalised as an in-patient f or deliv ery, subject to a valid claim being accepted under Mater nity 
  Expenses.
       (i) This w ould include in-patient hospitalisation expenses incur red on the New Bor n Bab y while the Insur ed Person is Hospitalised as 
   an in-patient f or deliv ery.
      (ii) Charges incur red on the New Bor n Bab y during and post birth up to 90 days fr om the date of deliv ery, within the limits of Mater nity 
   Expenses. 
      (iii) A New Bor n Bab y bey ond 90 days can be co vered under the P olicy b y way of an endorsement or at the next Renewal whichev er is 
   earlier, on payment of r equisite pr emium. 
  Conditions
  Any Refill of Sum Insur ed (Binge Refill Section C.I.j) will not be available f or co verage under this Benefit
 (ii) Vaccination Co ver:
          What is co vered
  We will co ver vaccination expenses listed belo w of a New Bor n Bab y from birth to until the New Bor n Bab y completes tw o years.
  Conditions
       (i) Coverage will be subject to claims admitted under Mater nity Expenses co ver and will be within the limits of Mater nity Sum Insur ed. 
       (ii) Vaccination expenses will be co vered only if the Insur ed Person whose mater nity claim has been accepted b y Us continues to Renew 
   the P olicy with Us dur ing the per iod. 
       (iii) Reimbursement claims f or vaccination expenses can be submitted quarterly in a P olicy Y ear.
       (iv) Section D.II.21. d is not applicable.
     Note:  
     (i) Our total liability under Mater nity Expenses inclusiv e of New bor n bab y expenses, vaccination expenses & Stem Cell Pr eservation 
   will be ₹40,000 per ev ent subject to maximum of 2 ev ents dur ing the lif etime, if the insur ed person has a nor mal deliv ery.
   (ii) Our total liability under Mater nity Expenses inclusiv e of New bor n bab y expenses, vaccination expenses & stem cell pr eservation will 
   be ₹60,000 per ev ent subject to maximum of 2 ev ents dur ing the lif etime, if the insur ed person has a C-Section deliv ery. 
        (iii)  Stem cell pr eservation
               What is co vered
  We will co ver onetime Medical Expenses up to the limit specified in the P olicy Schedule to wards the harv esting and storage of stem 
  cells of the New Bor n Bab y. 
  Conditions
         (i)  The harv esting and storage of the stem cells of the New Bor n Bab y is car ried out as a pr eventive measur e against possible futur e 
   Illnesses.
         (ii) The stem cells of the New Bor n Bab y are preserv ed in an India based Stem Cell Bank only .  
         (iii) The payment under this Benefit is subject to a valid claim being accepted b y Us under Mater nity Expenses under section C.I.(k).1Name of V accine
Tetanus T oxoid, Reduced Diphther ia Toxoid and Acellular P ertussis 
Vaccine, Adsorbed
Varicella V accine, liv e attenuated
Human Rotavirus V accine, Liv e Attenuated
Combined Measles, Mumps, and Rubella V accine (liv e attenuated)
BCG V accines
OPV
Hepatitis B
Haemophilus influenzae type b V accine (Hib)
Inactivated Hepatitis A virus V accine
Pneumococcal P olysacchar ide and Non- Typeable Haemophilus 
influenzae (NTHi) Pr otein D Conjugate V accine, Adsorbed
Typhoid
IPV2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
126 wks, 10 wks, 14 wks; 16-18 months;
15 months, 
6 wks, 10 wks, 14 wks
9 months, 15 months, 
At Birth,
At Birth, 6 months, 9 months 
At Birth, 6 wks, 6 months
6 wks, 10 wks, 14 wks; 16-18 months
12 months, 18 months
14 wks, 15 months 
9-12months, 18-2 yrs
6 wks, 10 wks, 14 wksTime to be giv en Sr. No.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.         (iv) The co verage under this Benefit will be within the limits of Mater nity Sum Insur ed as Specified in the P olicy Schedule and Pr oduct 
   Benefit T able. 
          (v) We shall be co vering stem cell pr eservation f or a maximum up to 2 New Bor n Bab y(s) dur ing the lif etime of an Insur ed Person. 
Section II: Additional Benefits
The Benefits listed belo w are additional P olicy benefits and shall be available with applicable limits, if any to all Insur ed Persons as specified in the 
Policy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.             
Benefits under this Section C.II ar e subject to the ter ms, conditions and exclusions of this P olicy. Claims under this Section C.II will not impact the 
Sum Insur ed or the eligibility f or No Claim   Bonus and Super No Claim Bonus.
(l) No Claim Bonus:
 We shall apply a cumulativ e bonus in the f orm of No Claim Bonus at such 10% of the Sum Insur ed of the expir ing policy y ear, pr ovided that 
 the insur ed person(s) has not made any claim under Section C.I in a policy y ear, and has successfully r enew ed the policy with us 
 continuously and without any br eak on or bef ore the Grace P eriod. The accumulated No Claim Bonus shall not exceed 100% of the Sum 
 Insured on the Renewal P olicy.
 Conditions
 (i) If the P olicy is a F amily Floater P olicy, then No Claim Bonus will accrue only if no claims hav e been made in r espect of the Insur ed 
  Person(s) in the expir ing P olicy Y ear. No claim Bonus which is accrued dur ing the claim fr ee Policy Y ear, will only be available to those 
  Insured Person(s) who w ere insur ed in such claim fr ee Policy Y ear and continue to be Insur ed Person(s) in the subsequent P olicy Y ear.
 (ii)  If the P olicy P eriod is tw o or thr ee years, any No Claim Bonus that has accrued f or the first/second P olicy Y ear will be cr edited at the 
  end of the first/second P olicy Y ear as the case may be and will be available f or any claims made in the subsequent P olicy Y ear. 
 (iii)  The No Claim Bonus can be utilised f or Benefits co vered under Section C.I.(a) (In-patient Hospitalization), C.I.(d) (Pr e-hospitalization 
  Medical Expenses), C.I.(e) (P ost-hospitalization Medical Expenses), C.I.(c) (Day Car e Treatment), C.I. (f).(a) (Domiciliary Hospitalization),  
  C.I.(f).(b) (Home T reatment), C.I.(g) (Road Ambulance Co ver), C.I.(h)Organ Donor & C.I.(i) A YUSH Co ver.
 (iv) The accumulated No Claim Bonus can be utilised only when Sum Insur ed specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able hav e 
  been completely exhausted.
 (v) If the Insur ed Persons in the expir ing P olicy ar e covered on an individual basis and ther e is an accumulated No claim bonus f or each 
  Insured Person under the expir ing P olicy, and such expir ing P olicy has been Renew ed with Us on a F amily Floater P olicy basis then the 
  No claim Bonus to be car ried forwar d for credit in such Renew ed Policy shall be the lo west accrued amongst all the Insur ed Persons.
 (vi)  If the Insur ed Persons in the expir ing P olicy ar e covered on a F amily Floater P olicy basis and such Insur ed Persons Renew their expir ing 
  Policy with Us b y splitting the Sum Insur ed in to tw o or mor e Family Floater P olicies/Individual P olicies, then the No Claim Bonus of the 
  expiring P olicy shall be apportioned to such Renew ed Policies in the pr oportion of the Sum Insur ed of each Renew ed Policy. 
 (vii)  If the Sum Insur ed has been r educed at the time of Renewal, the applicable No Claim Bonus shall be r educed in the same pr oportion to 
  the Sum Insur ed.
 (viii) If the Sum Insur ed under the P olicy has been incr eased at the time of Renewal the No Claim Bonus shall be calculated on the Sum 
  Insured of the last completed P olicy Y ear.
 (ix)   The No Claim Bonus is pr ovisional and is subject to r evision if a claim is made in r espect of the expir ing P olicy Y ear, which is notified 
  after the acceptance of Renewal pr emium. Such awar ded No Claim Bonus shall be withdrawn only in r espect of the expir ing P olicy Y ear 
  in which the claim was admitted. 
 (x)  In case of F amily Floater P olicies, Dependent Childr en attaining Age 25 y ears at the time of Renewal will be mo ved out of the F amily 
  Floater P olicy into an Individual P olicy. However, all continuity benefits f or such Insur ed Person on the P olicy will r emain intact. No 
  Claim Bonus ear ned on the P olicy will stay with the Insur ed Person(s) co vered under the or iginal P olicy.
 (xi) In the ev ent of a claim impacting the eligibility of a No Claim Bonus, the accumulated No Claim Bonus shall be r educed b y the 
  percentage of Sum Insur ed as accumulated in the pr evious P olicy Y ear and as mentioned in P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of 
  this P olicy.
(m)   Health Check Up Pr ogram
 What is co vered
 Insured Person(s) Aged 18 y ears and abo ve on the Start Date of the P olicy may avail a compr ehensiv e health check-up once in a P olicy Y ear 
 in accor dance with the table belo w and as specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
 Medical tests co vered in the Health Check-up Pr ogram ar e as f ollows:
 Reference: 
 MER - Medical Examiner's Report stamped and signed b y a Medical Practitioner who is an MD physician, 
 BMI - Body Mass Index, 
 CBC - Complete Blood Count, 
 ESR – Erythr ocyte Sedimentation Rate,
 ECG – Electr ocardiogram, 
 TMT - T readmill T est,
 SGPT - Serum Glutamic Pyruvic T ransaminase,
 SGOT - Serum Glutamic Oxaloacetic T ransaminase,
 GGT - Gamma-Glutamyl T ransf erase,
 LDL – Lo w Density Lipopr otein,
 HDL – High Density Lipopr otein,
 VLDL – V ery Lo w Density Lipopr otein,
 Hba1c - Gly cated Hemoglobin T est,
 USG – Ultrasonography .List of T ests - Dur ing Annual Health Check up
MER, CBC with ESR, Ur ine routine, Blood Gr oup, Blood Sugar, Serum Cholester ol, SGPT, Serum Cr eatinine, ECG
MER, CBC with ESR, Ur ine routine, Blood Gr oup,  Blood Sugar , Lipid Pr ofile, Kidney Function T est, ECG
MER, CBC with ESR, Ur ine routine, Blood Gr oup,  Blood Sugar , Lipid Pr ofile, TMT, Kidney Function T estUp to 4 Lacs
5 Lacs -10 Lacs
15 Lacs -75 LacsSum Insur ed
MER, CBC with ESR, ABO Gr oup & Rh type, Ur ine routine, Stool r outine, S Bilirubin(total/dir ect), SGOT, SGPT, 
GGT, Alkaline phosphatase, T otal Pr otein, Albumin: Globulin, Liv er Function T est, TMT, ECG, Cholester ol, LDL, 
HDL, T riglycerides, VLDL, Cr eatinine, Blood Ur ea Nitr ogen, Ur ic acid, Hba1C, Chest X ray, USG AbdomenAbove 75 Lacs
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. Conditions
 (i) The health check-ups shall be ar ranged b y Us only on cashless basis at Our Netw ork Pr oviders/  Empanelled Service Pr oviders; 
 (ii) The Netw ork Pr ovider /Empanelled Service Pr ovider shall be assigned b y us post r eceiving customer’s r equest to avail this Benefit;
 (iii) The Insur ed Person shall be eligible to avail a health check-up ev ery Policy Y ear.
 (iv)  Annual Health Check Up will hav e to be car ried out at one go (together). 
 (v) Section D.II.21.a is not applicable in r espect of co verage under this Benefit.
 (vi) We do not assume any liability to wards any loss or damage ar ising out of or in r elation to any opinion, actual or alleged er rors, 
  omissions and r epresentations made b y the Netw ork Pr ovider / Empanelled Service Pr oviders in r elation to the health check-up. 
(n) Domestic Emergency Assistance Service  
 What is co vered
 We will pr ovide the emergency medical assistance as descr ibed belo w when an Insur ed Person is trav elling, within India f or 150 (one 
 hundr ed and fifty) kilometr es or mor e away fr om his/her r esidential addr ess as mentioned in the P olicy Schedule. 
 i. Emergency Medical Evacuation:  When a Hospital with adequate medical facility is not available in the pr oximity of the Insur ed Person, 
  as deter mined b y Our Empanelled Service Pr ovider f or providing Emergency Services, Air Ambulance under appr opriate medical   
  supervision will be ar ranged b y Our Empanelled Service Pr ovider, thr ough an appr opriate mode of transport to the near est Hospital with 
  adequate medical facility which is able to  pr ovide the r equired car e. 
 ii. Medical Repatr iation (T ransportation):  When medically necessary as deter mined b y Empanelled Service Pr ovider and the consulting 
  Medical Practitioner transportation under medical supervision shall be pr ovided in r espect of the Insur ed Person to the r esidential 
  address as mentioned in the P olicy Schedule, pr ovided that the Insur ed Person is medically clear ed for trav el via common car rier, and 
  provided further that the transportation can be accomplished without compr omising the Insur ed Person ’s medical condition.
 Conditions
 - No claims f or reimbursement of expenses incur red for services ar ranged b y Insur ed Person will be allo wed unless agr eed b y Us or Our 
  author ized r epresentativ e. Ho wever in a situation wher e it is an emergency and when our service pr ovider is unable to pr ovide the 
  service or in case of an emergency wher e the insur ed person is unable to inf orm the empanelled service pr ovider, the Insur ed person 
  can ar range f or air ambulance service and can claim the same with Us.
 - Please call Our call centr e with details on the name of the Insur ed Person and/ or P olicyholder and P olicy number, on the toll fr ee 
  number specified in the P olicy Schedule f or availing this Benefit.
 What is not co vered
 We will not pr ovide services in the f ollowing instances: 
 (i) Travel undertaken specifically f or secur ing medical tr eatment.
 (ii) Injuries resulting fr om participation in acts of war or insur rection.
 (iii) Commission of an unlawful act(s).
 (iv) Attempt at suicide. 
 (v) Incidents inv olving the use of drugs unless pr escribed b y a Medical Practitioner .
 (vi) Transf er of the Insur ed Person fr om one medical facility to another medical facility of similar capabilities which pr ovides a similar lev el 
  of car e. 
 We will not evacuate or r epatr iate an Insur ed Person in the f ollowing instances:
 (i) Without medical author ization.
 (ii) With mild lesions, simple injur ies such as sprains, simple fractur es, or mild sickness which can be tr eated b y local Medical Practitioner 
  and do not pr event the Insur ed Person fr om continuing his/her tr ip or r eturning home.
 (iii) With a pr egnancy bey ond the end of the 28th w eek and will not evacuate or r epatr iate a child bor n while the Insur ed Person was 
  traveling bey ond the 28th w eek.
Section III: V alue Added Benefits  
The Benefits listed belo w are in-built value added benefits and shall be available to all Insur ed Persons in accor dance with the applicable Plan as 
specified in the P olicy Schedule. Benefits under this Section C.III ar e subject to the ter ms, conditions and exclusions of this P olicy.
 
Claims under this Section C.III will not impact the Sum Insur ed or the eligibility f or No Claim Bonus and Super No Claim Bonus.
(o)   Health Assessment
 What is co vered
 Health Assessment measur es MER including BP (Blood Pr essur e), BMI (Body Mass Index), HWR (Height –to- W eight Ratio), smoking status, 
 Blood Sugar and T otal Cholester ol. Charges f or the same shall be bor ne by Us once in a policy y ear. Insur ed can undergo health assessment 
 anytime dur ing the P olicy Y ear. All tests mentioned as a part of Health Assessment shall be conducted together .
 Conditions
 (i)  If the Insur ed Person who has undergone tests under Health Check-up Pr ogram then those specific tests shall not be per mitted to be 
  repeated under the Health Assessment in the same P olicy Y ear.
 (ii) Health Assessment can be undertaken at Our Netw ork Pr oviders /Empanelled Service Pr oviders on a cashless basis. An appointment f or 
  the medical examination can be scheduled at a time, conv enient to the Insur ed Person b y calling Our call centr e.
TM
(p)   Health Retur nsTM
 I.  What is Health Retur ns
   Health Retur ns is a per centage of pr emium calculated b y means of Healthy Heart Scor e which can be ear ned b y an Insur ed Person b y 
  looking after his/her health and being physically activ e on a r egular basis which is deter mined b y the f ollowing Health Activities:
  1. Activ Dayz  
  2. Fitness Assessment
  A Healthy Heart Scor e can be calculated b y undergoing one of the f ollowing Medical Assessment:
  i. Pre Policy Medical Check Up bef ore the start of the policy OR
  ii. Health Assessment (Section C. III. o) dur ing the policy  y ear OR
  iii. Health Check Up Pr ogram (Section C.II.m) 
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. Please note:
 - Health Assessment ((Section C. III. o)) and Health Check-up Pr ogram (Section C.II.m) can be done once a y ear. 
 - If an insur ed has done HA first, then insur ed can undergo AHC f or all the listed medical tests. 
 - However, if an Insur ed has done AHC first then HA is not mandatory and HHS can be calculated basis the AHC also.
 1.  Activ Dayz 
  Active Dayz™ encourages and r ecognizes all types of exer cise/fit ness activities b y making Use of activity tracking apps, devices and 
  visits to the F itness centr e or y oga centers to track and r ecord the activities members engage in.
                (i)  One Activ e Dayz™ can be ear ned b y:
   a.  Completing a F itness centr e or y oga centr e activity f or a minimum of 30 minutes at Our panel of F itness or y oga centr e, OR;
   b. Recor ding 10,000 steps or mor e in a day f or all Insur ed Persons (tracked thr ough Our mobile application or a w earable device 
    linked to the P olicy number) OR;
   c. Burning 300 calor ies or mor e in one exer cise session per day OR;
   d. Participating in a r ecognized marathon/ walkathon/ cy clothon or a similar activity which off ers a completion certificate with 
    timing.
   Once Activ Days ar e earned, Healthy Heart scor e is calculated basis the Medical assessment done and Health r eturns are allotted to 
   the Insur ed Person.
  Bonus Activ Dayz:  
  In case the insur ed person is unable to ear n Activ Dayz w e offer bonus activ e days to pass on the benefit f or days engaged in 
  maintaining good health.
  Bonus Activ dayz will be calculated basis details belo w:
  Please r efer example in Annexur e A for Bonus Activ Dayz calculation.
  If an Insur ed Person has completed less than 10000 steps per day but ho wever if monthly av erage step count is betw een 5000-7499 
  OR has bur nt 150-200 calor ies on an av erage in one exer cise session per day at the end of the month, then W e shall r eward 4 bonus 
  Activ Dayz.
  In case if an Insur ed Person has ear ned Activ Dayz, then he will be r ewarded bonus Activ Dayz in addition to the Activ e Dayz ear ned 
  during  the month. 
  Similarly, If an Insur ed Person If an Insur ed Person has completed less than 10000 steps per day but ho wever if monthly av erage step 
  count is equal to or gr eater than 7500 per day OR has bur nt mor e than 200 calor ies on an av erage in one exer cise session per day at 
  the end of the month, then W e shall r eward 6 bonus Activ dayz.
  In case if an Insur ed Person has ear ned Activ Dayz, then he will be r ewarded bonus Activ Dayz in addition to the Activ e Dayz ear ned 
  during the month. 
  Maximum Activ dayz that can be ear ned including Bonus Activ days is the number of days in that calendar month.
  The gr id abo ve is calculated on the Monthly Pr emium. The Insur ed Person can ear n up 30% Of their Monthly Pr emium as 
  HealthRetur ns based on the gr id abo ve.
  In addition to the abo ve monthly ear ning slabs, the Insur ed Person will ear n additional HealthRetur ns™ based on the Healthy Heart 
  Score™ and the number of Activ e Dayz™ r ecorded based on the belo w grid which shall be calculated basis the number of Activ e Dayz™ 
  achiev ed on y early basis. 
  Note -F itness Assessment Results shall not be consider ed for ear ning the f ollowing annual Slabs. The belo w mentioned slabs ar e in 
  addition to the monthly slabs, and ar e independent of the monthly slabs. e.g. Insur ed Person with Healthy Heart Scor e™ who on a 
  monthly basis has accomplished 13 Activ Dayz or mor e every month in a P olicy Y ear, and has achiev ed at least 275 Activ e Dayz™  
  (including Bonus Activ Dayz) in the same P olicy Y ear then shall be r ewarded with 50% Health Retur ns™ (30% accumulated ev ery month 
  + 20% on achieving 275 Activ e Dayz)Bonus Activ Dayz 
calculationBonus Activ Dayz Maximum % of Health 
Retur ns ear ned
Grid 1 – Monthly 
Earning SlabsNo of steps completed 
in a month / No of days 
in a calendar monthUpto 30% of the 
premium excluding 
premium f or optional 
beneﬁt(s) & taxesRange
4 Bonus Activ Dayz5000-7499
OR
Burnt 150-200 calor ies on an av erage in one 
exercise session per day at the end of the month
Grid 2 – Monthly 
Earning SlabsNo of steps completed 
in a month / No of days 
in a calendar month
6 Bonus Activ Dayz= or > 7500
OR
Burnt mor e than 200 calor ies on an av erage in one 
exercise session per day at the end of the month
Grid 3 – Monthly 
Earning Slabs275 Activ e Dayz™ 
(including Bonus Activ 
Dayz) in the same P olicy 
Year13 Activ Dayz or mor e eve month in a P olicy Y ear Upto 50% Health 
Retur ns™ (30% 
accumulated ev e month 
+ 20% on achieving 275 
Active Dayz)
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. The sum total ear ning under this benefit shall not exceed 50% of the pr emium excluding pr emium f or optional benefit(s) & taxes.
 2. Fitness Assessment
  Cardiorespiratory fit ness is an element of physical fit ness r equiring a combination of the cir culatory, r espiratory, and muscular systems 
  to supply oxygen to the w orking tissues dur ing physical activity . An Insur ed Person needs to undergo fit ness tests under f ollowing 4 
  components to assess Car diorespiratory fit ness:
  a. Cardiovascular Endurance 
  b. Muscular Endurance and Str ength
  c. Flexibility
  d. Body Composition
  Fitness Scor e Methodology
  i. An insur ed person is then instructed to undergo fit ness test (as defined in Annexur e A) under each component as per their age.
  ii. Post completion of T est, r esult is r ecorded and Individual Lev el is allotted as per the nor mativ e reference table.
  iii. The final total F itness lev el is generated based on w eighted av erage scor e from the r esult of individual parameters
  iv. Once F itness Assessment is completed b y the Insur ed Person, Healthy Heart scor e is calculated basis the Medical assessment done 
   and Health r eturns are allotted to the Insur ed Person as per the final lev el achiev ed.
  Please Note:
  a. In order to make it easier f or the Insur ed Person to ear n HealthRetur ns™, W e provide T wo fitness assessments per P olicy Y ear. These 
   fitness assessments will measur e the Insur ed Person ’s car diovascular endurance, flexibility, str ength, height to w eight ratio and 
   waist to   hip ratio. The Insur ed Person will r eceiv e fitness assessment r esults based on his/her measur ements.
  b. The fit ness assessment r esults will be valid f or six months and the best of the fit ness assessment r esult and number of 
   Active Dayz™ will be used in a giv en month to calculate  HealthRetur ns™.
   Kindly r efer to Annexur e A for complete details and Illustration.
 
  II.  Healthy Heart Scor e (HHS) and its calculation
   Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity in car diovascular disease (CVD) in India. The HHS 
  is a simplified scientific tool f or the assessment of r isk lev el of CAD o ver 10 y ears cr eated on the basis of the individual and multi-
  factor ial risk assessment done b y monitor ing following medical test based parameters:
    Healthy Heart Scor e Methodology:
   i. Once an Insur ed person completes the medical test based parameters as giv en abo ve, the actual value r eceiv ed for these 
   parameters is compar ed with the cut off value of each parameter . Kindly r efer to Annexur e A for complete details and illustration.
  ii. Based on the actual value r eceiv ed for each tests compar ed to the cut off value, Individual P oints ar e allocated to each parameter
  iii. The calculated r isk scor e (Sum of individual P oints)  is then conv erted into an absolute r isk pr obability in per centage of dev eloping 
   coronary heart disease (CHD) ev ents separately f or men and w omen.
  iv. The r isk pr obability estimate is then categor ized into Red, Amber and Gr een f or diff erent age and gender
  Kindly r efer to Annexur e A for cut –off values, complete details and Illustration
      The Healthy Heart Scor e™ is valid f or 12 months, and will automatically be updated based on latest available test r esult if another 
  Health Assessment  is completed.Fitness Components Perform Test as per the Age cr iteria
Body Composition: 18 yrs to 80 yrs:
Waist Hip cir cumf erence measur ement
Cardio-Vascular Endurance (Stamina) Lev el
( Any one of the giv en test option to be conducted & r esult to be 
recorded )18 yrs to 65 yrs:
Modiﬁed 3 – minutes Step test
Modiﬁed Spot Jogging T est
Muscular Str ength & Endurance Lev el
( Any one of the giv en test option to be conducted & r esult to be 
recorded )18 yrs to 55 yrs:
Knee Push-ups
Plank
Flexibility Lev el
Any one of the giv en test option to be conducted & r esult to be r ecorded )18 yrs to 65 yrs:
V Sit & Reach
Shoulder Reach Str etch
Parameter
Age: 
Gender: 
Total Cholester ol
Systolic blood pr essur e: 
Smoking Status:
Random Blood Sugar:S. No.
1
2
3
4
5
6275No of Activ e 
Dayz in a y ear
4.0 %Red
8.0%Amber
20.0%GreenHealthy Heart Scor e
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. III.  How to calculate Health Retur ns       
      Step 1 – The first step in Ear ning Health Retur n is to generate Healthy Heart Scor e. Each Insur ed Person in the P olicy should complete 
  Medical Assessment TM b y undergoing any of the f ollowing
  i. Health Assessment (Section III.15) dur ing the policy y ear OR
  ii. Health Check Up Pr ogram (Section C.II.m)
  iii. Pre Policy Medical Check Up bef ore the start of the policy
  Basis the medical assessment, an Insur ed Person will be categor ised into one of the thr ee HHS categor ies:
  1. Red
  2. Amber
  3. Green
  Once categor ised, an Insur ed Person needs to undergo Physical Assessment as mentioned in Step 2 to ear n Health Retur ns.
  Step 2 –  P ost completion of Medical Assessment , an Insur ed Person should ear n Activ e Dayz™/ Bonus Activ e Days, b y achieving daily 
  step count goal  on monthly basis and/or can achiev e fitness lev el by completing the F itness Assessment , twice in a P olicy Y ear after a      
  gap of 6 months. The health r eturn accrued post completion of F itness Assessment will stay applicable ev ery month f or next 6 months 
  only The fit ness assessment r esults will be valid f or six months and the best of the fit ness assessment r esult and number of 
  Active Dayz™ will be used in a giv en month to calculate HealthRetur ns™.
  Please r efer to Annexur e for Illustration             
                 Step 3 - Health Retur ns Gr id
   The Insur ed Person will ear n HealthRetur ns™ based on the Healthy Heart Scor e™, the fit ness assessment r esult and the number of 
  Active Dayz™ r ecorded. 
      HealthRetur ns™ is accrued on a monthly basis accor ding to the f ollowing gr id.
  
  Note: Please r efer Annexur e A for Measur ement of F itness Assessment lev el and Healthy Heart Scor e Status 
  In order to achiev e a particular lev el of HealthRetur n™ the Insur ed Person must achiev e either the r equired number of Activ e Dayz™ or 
  achiev e a lev el (as sho wn in table abo ve) under F itness Assessment. 
 IV.  Health Retur ns Eligibility
     (I)   Individual P olicy
               In case of an Individual P olicy, each Insur ed Person w ould be tracked separately and shall ear n HealthRetur ns based on individual 
   performance as per gr id of Healthy Heart Scor e and Activ e Dayz .        
   The f ollowing r elations up to Age of 18 y ears shall not be eligible f or ear ning HealthRetur ns /Health Assessment (Section III.15) 
   namely son, daughter, br other, sister, grandson, granddaughter, br other in-law, sister in-law, nephew, niece.
     (II)  Family Floater P olicy
   In case of a F amily Floater policy, each Insur ed Person w ould be tracked separately and shall ear n HealthRetur ns based on 
   individual perf ormance as per gr id of Healthy Heart Scor e and Activ e Dayz . For the pur pose of calculating HealthRetur ns, We 
   will allocate the o verall pr emium to the adults in the P olicy. Weightages f or allo wed family combinations ar e as descr ibed in the 
   table belo w.  
     Dependent Childr en up to 25 y ears of Age ar e not eligible f or HealthRetur ns/Health Assessment™ (Section III.15) .
        
 
 V.  Utilization Of HealthRetur ns
   Health Retur ns can be utilized b y any co vered member under a P olicy to wards the f ollowing expenses:
  - payment of Renewal Pr emium/EMI or payment of pr emium f or any r etail policy with Us.
  - For hospitalization expenses not payable as per the P olicy ter ms and conditions 
  - For non-payable expenses in case of an In-patient Hospitalization or Day Car e Treatment
  - Non-Medical expenses listed in Annexur e I ‘Non-Medical Expenses ’ that w ould not otherwise be payable under the P olicy.
  - Out-patient expenses up to the value of accrued funds
  - Reimbursement claims f or Outpatient can be submitted quarterly in a P olicy Y ear.
  Note: 
  - Funds ear ned as HealthRetur ns, can be car ried forwar d each month as long as the P olicy is Renew ed with Us in accor dance with 
   the Renewal T erms under the P olicy.
  - Permanent Exclusions and W aiting P eriods do not apply under this Benefit. 
  - The claim f or accumulated HealthRetur ns can be made a maximum 4 times in a P olicy Y ear. If You /Insur ed Person wish to kno w 
   the pr esent value of the funds ear ned as HealthRetur nsTM, then Y ou may contact Us at our toll fr ee number or thr ough Our w ebsite 
   or thr ough Our mobile application, which is available on installing the same
  There will no change in the parameter and scor ing mechanism. Ho wever ther e may be changes in cut off values ar riving at the scor ing 
  mechanism based on the emerging medical exper ience. Please r efer our w ebsite f or updated Annexur e. TM
No of Activ e Dayz  in a calendar month
13 or mor e
10 – 12
7- 9
4 – 6
0 – 3OR Fitness Assessment Result*
Level 5 
Level 4
Level 3
Level 2
Level 1Green
30.0%
18.0%
12.0%
6.0%
0%Amber
12.0%
7.2%
4.8%
2.4%
0%Red
6.0%
3.6%
2.4%
1.2%
0%Healthy Heart Scor e™
Family size
Self, Spouse and Dependent Childr en (upto 25 yrs)
Self and SpouseWeightage
1:1:0:0
1:1Health Retur ns accrued
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.(q)   Mental Health Assessment Pr ogram
 What is co vered
 You may avail a confidential pr ofessional assistance based Mental Health Assessment pr ogram to assess Y our cur rent mental health & 
 wellbeing, supported b y mental health coaching.          
 Mental Health Assessment includes
 1.  Guidance on kno wing Y our Mental Health status
         The Insur ed Person will be guided to take an online mental health assessment tool. The r esult of this assessment will be giv en on a 
  scale of ‘healthy’ to ‘extr emely sev ere’ risk for anxiety, depr ession and str ess. 
  • Healthy: Needs sustenance support;
  • Mild: Needs Self -care support;
  • Moderate: Needs interv ention and support; 
  • Severe: Needs interv ention and support;
  • Extremely Sev ere: Needs interv ention and support.
 2.  Guidance on Impr oving Y our Mental Health
  Based on the r esult of the mental health assessment under point 1 abo ve, the Insur ed Person(s) will be eligible f or a scr eening f or 
  mental health status and consultation sessions as mentioned belo w.
 Conditions applicable to Mental Health Coaching
 (i) These coaches shall be available o ver a telephonic discussion as a call back service/f easible mode of communication. The r equest f or 
  call back may be placed thr ough Digital self -servicing mediums of mobile app/w ebsite.
 (ii) It is agr eed and understood that Our coaches ar e not pr oviding and shall not be deemed to be pr oviding any medical advice. They shall 
  only pr ovide a suggestion f or the Insur ed Person ’s consideration and it is the Insur ed Person ’s sole and absolute choice to f ollow the 
  suggestion f or any health r elated advice.
 (iii) We do not assume any liability to wards any loss or damage ar ising out of or in r elation to any opinion, actual or alleged er rors, 
  omissions and r epresentations suggested under this Benefit.
 (iv) Mental health coaching services will r ender general support f or issues concer ning str ess, anxiety and depr ession. This will not include 
  support f or clinically established mental health conditions like bipolar disor der, schizophr enia, dementia, Alzheimer’s disease and/or 
  any other pr e diagnosed condition. Our support includes gr ief/ ber eavement counselling, support on mental health issues ar ising fr om 
  rape/ gender based violence, HIV, par enting and inter personal r elationships. W e do not off er any medical or legal/financial advice, in 
  any manner whatsoev er.
(r)  Upfront Good Health Discount: 
 If You ar e abo ve 18 Y ears of Age and not a Dependent Child under this P olicy, Y ou can ear n Good Health discount b y undergoing a Health 
 Risk Assessment. It is a dynamic scr eening tool based on ser ies of lif estyle and health based questions to assess Y our lif estyle habits and 
 health history to deter mine y our cur rent Health Status. Pr ovided that:
 You opt to complete the Health Risk Assessment(HRA) at the time of buying the P olicy. 
 (Note:  If Y our HRA outcome is good as defined belo w which is deter mined b y the scr eening T ool)
 (i)  You will eligible f or 10% discount on pr emium if opted at the time of buying the policy 
 (ii) Once y ou completed the HRA, y ou will r eceiv e a report which contains a health scor e based on the assessment of y our cur rent health. 
 (iii) Discount applicable only on first policy y ear.
 (iv) Discount is applied on the Pr emium of the Individual Insur ed Person who is eligible f or HRA discount
 (v) In case of F amily Floater r isk of each Adult insur ed will be evaluated and av erage discount need to be calculated. 
  Please r efer Annexur e B for Illustration on HRA P arameters.
Section IV : Optional Co vers
The f ollowing optional co vers shall apply only if the pr emium in r espect of the optional co ver has been r eceiv ed and the P olicy Schedule mentions 
the optional co ver is in f orce and available f or the Insur ed Persons under the P olicy. 
Benefits under this Section C.IV ar e subject to the ter ms, conditions and exclusions of this P olicy. The sub-limit f or each Benefit is specified 
against that Benefit in the P olicy Schedule /Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy. Payment of the Benefit shall be subject to the availability of the 
applicable sub-limit f or that Benefit.
All claims under this Section C.IV must be made in accor dance with the pr ocedur e set out in Section F .1 Wher ever a claim qualifies under mor e 
than one Benefit in Section C.IV, W e shall pay f or all such eligible co vers opted and in f orce.
(s)   Super NCB
 What is co vered
 We shall apply a Super No Claim Bonus (Super NCB) (o ver and abo ve) No Claim Bonus as specified under Section C. II. (l) at such rates as 
 specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy on the Sum Insur ed of the expir ing P olicy as specified f or Section C.I 
 in the P olicy Schedule on a cumulativ e basis, pr ovided that the Insur ed Person(s) has not made any claim under Section C.I in a P olicy Y ear 
 and has successfully Renew ed the P olicy with Us continuously and without any br eak. The accumulated Super No Claim Bonus shall not 
 exceed 100% of the Sum Insur ed on the Renew ed Policy. In the ev ent of a claim impacting the eligibility of Super No Claim Bonus, the 
 accumulated Super No Claim Bonus shall be r educed b y 50% of the Sum Insur ed at the commencement of subsequent P olicy Y ear.Know your mental health status
Moderate
Severe to  Extr emely Sev ereEligibility
1 screening f or mental health status f ollowed by 2 consultation sessions
1 screening f or mental health status f ollowed by 4 consultation sessions
HRA Outcome
Good Risk
Moderate/High RiskDescr iption
No risk or History of any disease compar ed to peers in the same age and gender gr oup
Moderate to High r isk or P ositiv e history of any disease compar ed to peers in the same age and gender gr oup
Family size
Self and Spouse 
Self, Spouse and Dependent Childr enWeightage
1:1
1:1:0
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. Conditions
 (i) “Super NCB” is an extension to the Benefit mentioned in Section C.II.(l) (No Claim Bonus) and ther efore all the conditions and 
  provisions stated under Section C.II.(l) shall also be valid and applicable in r elation to f or this Section. IV .(s). 
 (ii) At the time of Renewal of this P olicy, if the P olicyholder chooses not to r enew this optional co ver, then the Super NCB under the 
  expiring P olicy shall be f orfeited. 
 (iii) The Binge Refill & accumulated No Claim Bonus shall not be consider ed while calculating the Super NCB. 
(t)   Travel Protect  
 We shall pay fixed benefits amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this policy only once in a policy y ear 
 irrespectiv e of the claim amount, wher e the Insur ed Person trav els by a common Car rier within the ter ritory of India. 
 The co ver under this benefit shall cease f or that policy y ear post claim settlement under this benefit.
 
 Definition applicable to this section 
 Common Car rier Shall means any commer cial public airline operating under license issued b y the Appr opriate author ity for transportation of   
 passengers.
 Period of Insurance shall mean a per iod within the P olicy P eriod which commences when the Insur ed Person cr osses the City of Residence 
 and expir es automatically on the earliest of:
 a)  the Insur ed Person r eturning to the City of r esidence OR
 b)  the expiry of the per iod specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct benefit T able of this P olicy fr om the commencement of the P eriod 
  of Insurance; OR
 c)  the P olicy P eriod End Date.
 
 Place of Or igin Shall mean the starting point/ place fr om wher e the Insur ed Person's tr ip is scheduled to be undertaken thr ough a Common 
 Carrier by which he leav es the City of Residence.
 This optional co ver will be applied on individual basis f or Individual P olicies, Multi Individual & F amily Floater policy .
 t.a  Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage Benefit
         What is co vered 
         We shall pay the fixed benefit amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy against this Optional 
  Benefit in the ev ent of total and complete loss of the Insur ed Person ’s Checked- in baggage whilst the Insur ed Person was trav elling 
  within India b y a common Car rier pr ovided that:
  (i)   Coverage under this Optional Benefit shall commence only after the Checked-in Baggage is in the custody of the Common Car rier 
   and a r eceipt is obtained b y the Insur ed Person.
  (ii) Coverage under this Optional Benefit is only available f or 24 hours after the common car rier reaching the Place of Destination 
   specified in the Insur ed Person ’s valid ticket and shall ter minate automatically ther eafter .
  What is not co vered
  Any claim in r espect of any Insur ed Person f or, ar ising due to any of the f ollowing shall not be admissible under this Optional Benefit 
  unless expr essly stated to the contrary elsewher e in the P olicy ter ms and conditions:
  (i)  Any loss ar ising fr om any delay, detention, confiscation b y customs officials or other public author ities;
  (ii) Any loss due to damage to the Checked-In Baggage;
  (iii) Valuables 
  (iv) Any item that the Common Car rier’s policy or rules specifies should not hav e been car ried.
  For this Optional Benefit only:
  Valuables shall mean and include photographic, audio, video, painting, cash, computer and any other electr onic equipment, 
  telecommunications, telescopes, binoculars, antiques, watches, jew ellery and gems, furs and articles made of pr ecious stones and 
  metals.
 t.b Delay of Checked-in Baggage
         What is co vered 
         We shall pay the fixed benefit amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy against this Optional 
  Benefit if the deliv ery of the Insur ed Person ’s Checked-In baggage which has been entrusted with the Common Car rier is delay ed by a 
  period equal to or exceeding the first six hours as specified in the policy schedule/pr oduct benefit T able of this P olicy, fr om the Insur ed 
  Person ’s arrival at the Place of Destination specified on his/her valid ticket dur ing the P olicy P eriod of Insurance.
  What is not co vered
  Any claim in r espect of any Insur ed Person f or, ar ising due to any of the f ollowing shall not be admissible under this Optional Benefit 
  unless expr essly stated to the contrary elsewher e in the P olicy ter ms and conditions: 
  (i)  Any delay which does not exceed the time per iod specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct benefit T able of this P olicy f or this 
   Optional Benefit;
  (ii) Detention or confiscation of the Check-in baggage b y the Common Car rier or customs or any go vernment or other agencies;
  (iii) Any delay attr ibutable to damage to the Checked-In Baggage war ranting an examined deliv ery by the Common Car rier;
 t.c Trip Cancellation & Inter ruption 
  A.  Trip Cancellation:
    What is co vered
   If the Insur ed Person ’s outwar d trip as a far e paying passenger fr om the City of Residence to a Place of Destination on a Common 
   Carrier is unav oidably cancelled bef ore the commencement of the P eriod of Insurance solely and dir ectly due to one of the r easons 
   below, then W e shall pay the benefit amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
   (i)  Earthquake, stor m, flood, inundation, cy clone or tempest pr ovided that the per il takes Place pr ior to the commencement of the 
    Period of Insurance at or in the vicinity of the Place of Or igin of the T rip, the ultimate scheduled Place of Destination or any 
    intermediate place which is inv olved in or r elated to the pr oposed jour ney;
   (ii) Terrorism pr ovided that the per il takes place pr ior to the commencement of the P eriod of Insurance at or in the vicinity of the 
    Place of Or igin of the tr ip, the ultimate scheduled Place of Destination or any inter mediate place which is inv olved in or r elated 
    to the pr oposed T rip
   (iii) The Insur ed Person ’s Immediate F amily Member dies or is Hospitalized in an Emergency Due to an unf oreseen Illness or Injury 
    for at least 2 consecutiv e days pr ovided that such Illness or Injury shall be diagnosed not earlier than 10 consecutiv e days fr om 
    the scheduled commencement of the T rip;
   
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.   (iv) The Insur ed Person is Hospitalized in an Emergency due to an unf oreseen Illness or Injury (in case this Optional Benefit is 
    applicable to the Insur ed Person along with Section C.1(a)) and such Hospitalization commences within 10 days fr om the 
    scheduled commencement of the tr ip and continues f or at least 2 consecutiv e days and the tr eating Medical Practitioner 
    certifies in wr iting that the insur ed person is not fit to undertake T ravel.
   
  B.  Trip Inter ruption:
                 What is co vered
   If the Insur ed Person ’s stay is unav oidably curtailed after the commencement of the P eriod of Insurance solely and dir ectly due to 
   one of the r easons belo w, then W e shall pay the benefit amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this 
   policy .
   (i)  Earthquake, stor m, flood, inundation, cy clone or tempest pr ovided that the per il takes place within the P eriod of Insurance at or 
    in the vicinity of the Place of Or igin of the tr ip, the ultimate scheduled Place of Destination or any inter mediate place which is 
    involved in or r elated to the pr oposed tr ip.
   (ii) Terrorism pr ovided that the per il takes place within the P eriod of Insurance at or in the vicinity of the Place of Or igin of the tr ip 
    the ultimate scheduled Place of Destination or any inter mediate place which is inv olved in or r elated to the pr oposed T rip;
   (iii) The Insur ed Person ’s Immediate F amily Member dies or is Hospitalized in an Emergency due to an unf oreseen Illness or Injury 
    and such Hospitalization continues f or at least 5 consecutiv e days;
   What is not co vered
   Any claim in r espect of any Insur ed Person f or, ar ising due to any of the f ollowing shall not be admissible under this Optional 
   Benefit unless expr essly stated to the contrary elsewher e in the P olicy ter ms and conditions:
   (i) Negligence or fault of the trav el agent
   (ii) Any advance intimation giv en to the Insur ed Person of a possible delay of the Common Car rier by the way of sour ces such as 
    travel advisor ies issued b y competent /Go vernment author ity(s) etc in a public domain that might r esult in the cancellation or 
    curtailment of the tr ip
 t.d   Trip Delay  
  What is co vered
  If the departur e of a Common Car rier in which the Insur ed Person is scheduled to trav el on a valid ticket dur ing the P eriod of Insurance 
  is delay ed from city of r esidence fr om the schedule departur e time f or mor e than the number of consecutiv e and completed 
  hours/minutes as specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able fr om the later the declar ed time of departur e or expected 
  time of departur e due solely and dir ectly to any one of the f ollowing:
  (i) Earthquake, flood, rains, stor m, cy clone or tempest; or
  (ii) Terrorism
  (iii) Delay of a scheduled Common Car rier caused b y inclement w eather .
  (iv) Delay due to a sudden str ike or any other action b y emplo yees of the Common Car rier.
  (v) Delay caused b y equipment failur e of the Common Car rier.
  (vi) Delay caused b y operational pr oblem at the Common Car rier end (like cr ew / staff scheduling issues etc).
  (vii)Cancellation or r escheduling of flights done at the instance of the Common Car rier that causes delay 
  
  We shall pay the benefit    amount specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able against this Optional Benefit pr ovided that W e 
  or the Assistance Service Pr ovider is giv en wr itten notice of the delay immediately and in any ev ent within 30 days of the 
  commencement of the    delay and immediate alter native arrangements ar e made b y the Insur ed Person f or progressing the tr ip as 
  scheduled
  What is not co vered
  Any Claim in r espect of any Insur ed Person f or, ar ising due to any of the f ollowing shall not be admissible under this Optional Benefit 
  unless expr essly stated to the contrary elsewher e in the P olicy ter ms and conditions:
  (i) Any contingencies other than those specifically named abo ve;
  (ii) The Common Car rier is taken out of service on the instructions of the Civil A viation Author ity or any similar author ity;
  (iii) Delay caused b y strike or industr ial action if alr eady notified at the time the Insur ed Person booked his/her ticket or paid or 
   committed to other trav el and accommodation expenses.
  (iv) The failur e to ar rive for the Common Car rier’s departur e in sufficient time to complete all departur e formalities in accor dance with 
   the Common Car rier’s published time schedule.
  (vi) Rescheduling of the flight b y the flight operator minimum 10 hours pr ior to the or iginal departur e date & time of the booked 
   Common Car rier is not co vered.                
 t.e  Missed Flight Connection
              What is co vered
  If the Insur ed Person misses the connecting flight dur ing the P eriod of Insurance solely and dir ectly due to the delay ed arrival of the 
  Common Car rier in which the Insur ed Person was trav eling on a valid ticket, W e pay the benefit amount specified in the P olicy 
  Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy f or the costs incur red by the Insur ed Person to continue the jour ney to the Scheduled 
  Place of Destination pr ovided that the time gap betw een the scheduled ar rival of the Common Car rier and the connecting flight is mor e 
  than the number of consecutiv e hours specified in the P olicy Schedule/ Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy.
  What is not co vered
  Any claim in r espect of any Insur ed Person f or, ar ising due to any of the f ollowing shall not be admissible under this Optional Benefit 
  unless expr essly stated to the contrary elsewher e in the P olicy ter ms and conditions:
  (i)  Missing of the flight is the r esult of any deviation fr om the or iginally scheduled r oute at the instance of the Insur ed Person f or any 
   reason whatsoev er;
  (ii) Any advance intimation giv en to the Insur ed Person of a possible delay of the Common Car rier by the way of sour ces such as trav el 
   advisor ies issued b y competent /Go vernment    author ity(s) etc in a public domain that might lead to missing of the connecting 
   flight;
(u)   Premium W aiver
 What is co vered 
 If an Insur ed Person is diagnosed f or the first time dur ing the policy y ear   with any of the belo w listed Cr itical Illnesses OR suff ers an Injury 
 due to an Accident r esulting in the P ermanent T otal Disablement of the Insur ed Person which is of the natur e specified in the table belo w 
 within 365 days fr om the date of the Accident which occur red dur ing the P olicy P eriod, then the pr emium will be waiv ed off f or 1 P olicy y ear. 
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.Definition Critical Illnesses
I.  A malignant tumour character ized b y the uncontr olled gr owth and spr ead of malignant cells with 
 invasion and destruction of nor mal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported b y histological 
 evidence of malignancy . The ter m cancer includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sar coma. 
II.  The f ollowing ar e excluded- 
 i.   All tumors which ar e histologically descr ibed as car cinoma in situ, benign, pr e-malignant, 
  borderline malignant, lo w malignant potential, neoplasm of unkno wn behavior, or non-
  invasiv e, including but not limited to: Car cinoma in situ of br easts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, 
  CIN -2 and CIN-3. 
 ii.  Any non-melanoma skin car cinoma unless ther e is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes 
  or   beyond;
 iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion bey ond the epider mis;  
 iv. All tumours of the pr ostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason scor e greater 
  than 6 or having pr ogressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
 v. All Thyr oid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or belo w;
 vi.  Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
 vii. Non-invasiv e papillary cancer of the bladder histologically descr ibed as T aN0M0 or of a 
  lesser   classification, 
 viii. All Gastr o-Intestinal Str omal T umors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM 
  Classification) or belo w and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPF s;
 ix.  All tumours in the pr esence of HIV inf ection.
I.  The first occur rence of heart attack or my ocardial infar ction, which means the death of a portion 
 of the heart muscle as a r esult of inadequate blood supply to the r elevant ar ea. The diagnosis f or 
 Myocardial Infar ction should be evidenced b y all of the f ollowing cr iteria: 
 i.  A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute my ocardial 
  infarction (F or e.g. typical chest pain)1 Cancer of Specified 
 Severity:
2 Myocardial Infar ction 
 (First Heart Attack of 
 specific sev erity)List & Definition of Cr itical Illnesses as applicable:  The symptoms of the Cr itical Illness first diagnosed or manif est itself dur ing 
the P olicy P eriod and after completion of 90 days fr om the inception of the F irst P olicy with Us.
I.  The actual undergoing of heart surgery to cor rect blockage or nar rowing in one or mor e coronary 
 artery(s), b y coronary artery b ypass grafting done via a ster notomy (cutting thr ough the br east 
 bone) or minimally invasiv e key hole cor onary artery b ypass pr ocedur es. The diagnosis must be 
 supported b y a cor onary angiography and the r ealization of surgery has to be confir med b y a 
 cardiologist. 
II.  The f ollowing ar e excluded: 
 i.  Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arter ial procedur es
I.  The actual undergoing of open-heart valv e Surgery is to r eplace or r epair one or mor e heart 
 valves, as a consequence of def ects in, abnor malities of, or disease-aff ected car diac valv e(s). 
 The diagnosis of the valv e abnor mality must be supported b y an echocar diography and the 
 realization of surgery has to be confir med b y a specialist medical practitioner . Catheter based 
 techniques including but not limited to, balloon valv otomy/valvuloplasty ar e excluded.
I.  End stage r enal disease pr esenting as chr onic ir reversible failur e of both kidneys to function, as 
 a result of which either r egular r enal dialysis (hemodialysis or per itoneal dialysis) is instituted or 
 renal transplantation is car ried out. Diagnosis has to be confir med b y a specialist medical 
 practitioner .
I.  Any cer ebrovascular incident pr oducing per manent neur ological sequelae. This includes 
 infarction of brain tissue, thr ombosis in an intracranial v essel, haemor rhage and embolization 
 from an extracranial sour ce. Diagnosis has to be confir med b y a specialist medical practitioner 
 and evidenced b y typical clinical symptoms as w ell as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the 
 brain. Evidence of per manent neur ological deficit lasting f or at least 3 months has to be 
 produced. 
II.  The f ollowing ar e excluded: 
 i.  Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
 ii.  Traumatic Injury of the brain 
 iii.  Vascular disease aff ecting only the ey e or optic nerv e or v estibular functions.3 Open Chest CABG
4 Open Heart 
 Replacement  Or Repair 
 of Heart V alves
5 Kidney F ailure Requir ing 
 Regular Dialysis
6 Stroke Resulting In 
 Permanent Symptoms ii.  New character istic electr ocardiogram changes 
 iii.  Elevation of infar ction specific enzymes, T roponins or other specific biochemical markers. 
 The f ollowing ar e excluded: 
 i. Other acute Cor onary Syndr omes 
 ii. Any type of angina pector is 
 iii. A rise in car diac biomarkers or T roponin T or I in absence of o vert ischemic heart disease OR 
  following an intra-arter ial car diac pr ocedur e. 
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.I.  The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
 i.  One of the f ollowing human organs: heart, lung, liv er, kidney, pancr eas, that r esulted fr om 
  irreversible end-stage failur e of the r elevant organ, or 
 ii.  Human bone mar row using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has 
  to be confir med b y a specialist medical practitioner .
II.  The f ollowing ar e excluded: 
 i.  Other stem-cell transplants 
 ii.  Wher e only islets of langerhans ar e transplanted
I.  Total and ir reversible loss of use of tw o or mor e limbs as a r esult of injury or disease of the brain 
 or spinal cor d. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis will be 
 permanent with no hope of r ecovery and must be pr esent f or mor e than 3 months.  
I.  The unequiv ocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Scler osis confir med and evidenced b y all of the 
 following: 
 i.  investigations including typical MRI findings, which unequiv ocally confir m the diagnosis to 
  be multiple scler osis and 
 ii.  there must be cur rent clinical impair ment of motor or sensory function, which must hav e 
  persisted f or a continuous per iod of at least 6 months.
II.  Other causes of neur ological damage such as SLE and HIV ar e excluded.
I.  A state of unconsciousness with no r eaction or r esponse to exter nal stimuli or inter nal needs. 
 This diagnosis must be supported b y evidence of all of the f ollowing: 
 i.  no response to exter nal stimuli continuously f or at least 96 hours; 
 ii.  life support measur es are necessary to sustain lif e; and 
 iii.  permanent neur ological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset of 
  the coma.
II.  The condition has to be confir med b y a specialist medical practitioner . Coma r esulting dir ectly 
 from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.
I.  Motor neur on disease diagnosed b y a specialist medical practitioner as spinal muscular atr ophy, 
 progressive bulbar palsy, amy otrophic lateral scler osis or pr imary lateral scler osis. Ther e must be 
 progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anter ior hor n cells or bulbar eff erent 
 neurons. Ther e must be cur rent significant and per manent functional neur ological impair ment 
 with objectiv e evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted f or a continuous per iod of at 
 least 3 months.7   Major Organ / Bone 
 Marrow Transplant
8 Permanent P aralysis of 
 Limbs
9 Multiple Scler osis W ith 
 Persisting Symptoms
10 Coma of Specified 
 Severity
11 Motor Neur on Disease 
 With Permanent 
 Symptoms
I.  There must be thir d-degr ee bur ns with scar ring that co ver at least 20% of the body's surface 
 area. The diagnosis must confir m the total ar ea inv olved using standar dized, clinically accepted, 
 body surface ar ea charts co vering 20% of the body surface ar ea.
I.  Total and ir reversible loss of hear ing in both ears as a r esult of illness or accident. This diagnosis 
 must be supported b y pure tone audiogram test and certified b y an Ear, Nose and Thr oat (ENT) 
 specialist. T otal means “the loss of hear ing to the extent that the loss is gr eater than 90decibels 
 across all fr equencies of hear ing” in both ears.
I.  Total and ir recoverable loss of the ability to speak as a r esult of injury or disease to the v ocal 
 cords. The inability to speak must be established f or a continuous per iod of 12 months. This 
 diagnosis must be supported b y medical evidence fur nished b y and Ear, Nose, Thr oat (ENT) 
 specialist. 
II.  All psy chiatr ic related causes ar e excluded. 
Chronic persistent bone mar row failur e which r esults in anaemia, neutr openia and thr ombocytopenia 
requiring tr eatment with at least one of the f ollowing: 
a. Blood pr oduct transfusion; 
b. Mar row stimulating agents; 
c. Immunosuppr essive agents; or 
d. Bone mar row transplantation. 
The diagnosis must be confir med b y a haematologist using r elevant laboratory inv estigations 
including Bone Mar row Biopsy r esulting in bone mar row cellular ity of less than 25% which is 
evidenced b y any tw o of the f ollowing: 
a. Absolute neutr ophil count of 500/mm³ or less 
b. Platelets count less than 20,000/mm³ or less 
c. Absolute Reticulocyte count of 20,000/mm³ or less 
Temporary or r eversible Aplastic Anaemia is excluded.
In this condition, the bone mar row fails to pr oduce sufficient blood cells or clotting agents.12 Third Degr ee Bur ns
13 Deafness
14 Loss of Speech
15 Aplastic Anemia
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.I.  Permanent and ir reversible failur e of liv er function that has r esulted in all thr ee of the f ollowing:
 i.  Permanent jaundice; and 
 ii.  Ascites; and 
 iii.  Hepatic encephalopathy . 
II.  Liver failur e secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded.
I.  End stage lung disease, causing chr onic r espiratory failur e, as confir med and evidenced b y all of 
 the following: 
 i.  FEV1 test r esults consistently less than 1 litr e measur ed on 3 occasions 3 months apart; 
  and 
 ii.  Requir ing continuous per manent supplementary oxygen therap y for hypoxemia; and
 iii.  Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen pr essur es of 55mmHg or less (P aO2 <55 mm 
  Hg); and
 iv.  Dyspnea at r est.
Bacter ial inf ection r esulting in sev ere inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal chor d 
resulting in significant, ir reversible and per manent neur ological deficit. The neur ological deficit must 
persist f or at least 6 w eeks r esulting in per manent inability to perf orm thr ee or mor e Activities f or 
Loss of Independent Living.
This diagnosis must be confir med b y: 
a.  The pr esence of bacter ial inf ection in cer ebrospinal fluid b y lumbar punctur e; and 
b.  A consultant neur ologist certifying the diagnosis of bacter ial meningitis. 
Bacter ial Meningitis in the pr esence of HIV inf ection is excluded. 
A sub-massiv e to massiv e necr osis of the liv er by the Hepatitis virus, leading pr ecipitously to liv er 
failur e. This diagnosis must be supported b y all of the f ollowing: 
a.  Rapid decr easing of liv er size; 
b.  Necrosis inv olving entir e lobules, leaving only a collapsed r eticular framew ork; 
c.  Rapid deter ioration of liv er function tests; 
d.  Deepening jaundice; and 
e.  Hepatic encephalopathy . 
Acute Hepatitis inf ection or car rier status alone does not meet the diagnostic cr iteria.16 End Stage Liv er Failure
17 End Stage Lung F ailure
18 Bacter ial Meningitis
19 Fulminant Hepatitis
A group of her editary degenerativ e diseases of muscle character ised b y progressive and per manent 
weakness and atr ophy of certain muscle gr oups. The diagnosis of muscular dystr ophy must be 
unequiv ocal and made b y a Neur ologist acceptable to Us, with confir mation of at least 3 of the 
following 4 conditions: 
a.  Family history of muscular dystr ophy; 
b.  Clinical pr esentation including absence of sensory disturbance, nor mal cer ebrospinal fluid and 
 mild tendon r eflex r eduction; 
c.  Character istic electr omygr om; or 
d.  Clinical suspicion confir med b y muscle biopsy . 
The condition must r esult in the inability of the Insur ed Person to perf orm at least 3 of the 6 
activities of daily living as listed belo w (either with or without the use of mechanical equipment, 
special devices or other aids and adaptations in use f or disabled persons) f or a continuous per iod of 
at least 6 months.20 Muscular Dystr ophy
Type of P ermanent T otal Disablement
i) Total and ir recoverable loss of sight of both ey es
ii) Loss b y physical separation or total and per manent loss of use of both hands or both f eet
iii) Loss b y physical separation or total and per manent loss of use of one hand and one f oot
iv) Total and ir recoverable loss of sight of one ey e and loss of a Limb
v) Total and ir recoverable loss of hear ing of both ears and loss of one Limb/loss of sight of one ey e
vi) Total and ir recoverable loss of hear ing of both ears and loss of speech
vii) Total and ir recoverable loss of speech and loss of one Limb/loss of sight of one ey e
viii) Permanent total and absolute disablement (not falling under the abo ve) disabling the Insur ed Person fr om engaging in any  
emplo yment or occupation or business f or remuneration or pr ofit, of any descr iption whatsoev er which r esults in Loss of 
Independent Living.
 (i)   This Benefit is available once in the lif etime of the P olicy, r egardless of the number of y ears the P olicy has serv ed with Us. 
 (ii) Waiver of pr emium f or 1 y ear shall be excluding with r espect to the pr emium payable to wards optional co vers opted, if any
 (iii) In case of Individual/multi individual P olicy, each individual Insur ed Person can opt this optional co vers as per their r equirements. In 
  case of F amily Floater P olicy, once selected, the optional co vers shall apply to all Insur ed Persons without any individual selection. 
 (iv) This optional co ver can be opted only at inception of the P olicy. 
  Not applicable f or Renewal/P ortability & Migration cases.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.(v) EMI Pr otection
 What is co vered
 We shall pay equated monthly instalment due under existing loan account  as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this 
 Policy wher e the insur ed is hospitalized due to any illness/injury in excess of 6 consecutiv e days dur ing the P olicy P eriod while the policy is 
 in force and pr ovided that claim under  In-patient Hospitalization under Section C.I.(a) or Day Car e Treatment under Section C.I.(c) or Section 
 C.I.(i) A YUSH Co ver or Section C.I. (f) (a) Domiciliary Hospitalization or (f) (b) Home T reatment is admitted b y Us. The benefit amount will be 
 paid as a lump sum amount post the insur ed Person discharge fr om the hospital.
 This Benefit is available once in the lif etime in the P olicy r egardless of the number of y ears the P olicy has serv ed with Us. This optional 
 cover will be applied on individual basis f or Individual, Multi Individual & F amily Floater policy .            
 What is not co vered
 Any penalty or ar rears which may hav e accumulated due to delay ed or missed EMI’s pr ior to the date of hospitalisation.
(w)  Non-Medical Expense waiv er 
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver cost of Non-Medical Items, listed under Annexur e I of this P olicy, which ar e necessar ily incur red to wards   Hospitalization of 
 the Insur ed Person, ar ising out of Illness or Injury contracted or sustained dur ing the P olicy P eriod. The Benefit is available subject to claim
 being admissible under the In-patient Hospitalization Benefit (C.I. a) and/ or Day Car e Treatment    (C.I.C) Benefit under the P olicy and 
 provided that the expenses on Non-Medical Items pertain to the same Illness/injury admitted b y US. The total, cumulativ e and maximum 
 claim pay out under this Benefit shall be limited to applicable policy Sum Insur ed specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit table of 
 the Base P olicy.
(x)  Reduction in Mater nity W aiting P eriod
 What is co vered
 We will pr ovide f or a waiv er of waiting per iod for Mater nity Expenses (Section C.I.k) fr om 36 months to 24 months fr om the date of 
 inception of first P olicy with Us. New Bor n Bab y Expense, V accination Expense & Stem Cell Pr eservation will f ollow reduction in waiting 
 period under Mater nity Expenses Co ver. All other ter ms, conditions and exclusions under Mater nity Expenses Co ver (Section C.I.K) shall 
 continue to apply .
 This optional co ver can be opted only at inception of the P olicy. This Benefit will not be available at Renewal stage and/or P ortability & 
 Migration cases.
(y)  OPD Expenses
 What is co vered
 We shall co ver the Medical Expenses incur red by the Insur ed Person dur ing the P olicy P eriod to wards outpatient consultation as specified in 
 the P olicy Schedule/Pr oduct Benefit T able of the P olicy in r elation to any illness/ injury diagnosed dur ing the P olicy P eriod. These services 
 can be availed via Our application or thr ough toll fr ee number of Empanelled Service Pr ovider specified in the P olicy Schedule on cashless 
 basis in selected cities.
 This co ver includes:
 (a)   Physical Outpatient consultations giv en by a Medical Practitioner or A YUSH Medical Practitioner dur ing the P olicy Y ear.
 (b)  Teleconsultation giv en by a Medical Practitioner or A YUSH Medical Practitioner f or any telephonic/ virtual consultations and 
  recommendations.
 For the pur pose of this Benefit, telephonic/virtual consultation shall mean consultation pr ovided b y a Medical Practitioner thr ough var ious 
 mode of communication like audio, video, online portal, chat or mobile application. 
 Conditions: 
 Benefits under this Section shall be available on an individual basis to each eligible Insur ed Person up to the limit specified in the P olicy 
 Schedule f or an Individual P olicy and F amily Floater P olicies. 
 Any claim under this Benefit shall not impact the Opted Sum Insur ed, No Claim Bonus & Super No Claim Bonus (if opted).
Section D: PERMANENT EXCLUSION
All waiting per iods and per manent exclusions shall apply individually f or each Insur ed Person and claims shall be assessed accor dingly . We shall 
not be liable to make any payment under this P olicy dir ectly or indir ectly f or, caused b y or ar ising out of or ho wsoev er attr ibutable to any of the 
following:
I.  Standar d Exclusions
1.      Pr e-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl01)
 a) Expenses r elated to the tr eatment of a pr e-existing Disease (PED) and its dir ect complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 
  months as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy of continuous co verage after the date of inception of 
  the first policy with Insur er. 
 b) In case of enhancement of sum insur ed the exclusion shall apply afr esh to the extent of sum insur ed incr ease.
 c) If the Insur ed Person is continuously co vered without any br eak as defined under the portability nor ms of the extant IRDAI (Health 
  Insurance) Regulations, then waiting per iod for the same w ould be r educed to the extent of pr ior co verage.
 d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of months as specified in the P olicy Schedule / Pr oduct Benefit T able of this P olicy f or any 
  pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declar ed at the time of application and accepted b y Insur er.
2.      Specified disease / pr ocedur e waiting per iod: (Code- Excl02)
 a) Expenses r elated to the tr eatment of the listed Conditions, surger ies/tr eatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of 
  continuous co verage after the date of inception of the first policy with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable f or claims ar ising due 
  to an accident.
 b) In case of enhancement of sum insur ed the exclusion shall apply afr esh to the extent of sum insur ed incr ease.
 c) If any of the specified disease/pr ocedur e falls under the waiting per iod specified f or pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the tw o 
  waiting per iods shall apply .
 d) The waiting per iod for listed conditions shall apply ev en if contracted after the policy or declar ed and accepted without a specific 
  exclusion.
 e) If the Insur ed Person is continuously co vered without any br eak as defined under the applicable nor ms on portability stipulated b y 
  IRDAI, then waiting per iod for the same w ould be r educed to the extent of pr ior co verage.
 f) List of specific diseases/pr ocedur es: 
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.Body System Illness Treatment/ Surgery
Eye
Ear Nose Thr oatCataract Cataract Surgery
Glaucoma Surgery
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentGlaucoma
Sinusitis
Rhinitis
Tonsillitis & Adenitis
Tympanitis & Non T raumatic P erforation
Deviated Nasal Septum
Otitis Media
Adenoiditis
Mastoiditis1
2
GynecologyMedical & Surgical T reatment
All Cysts, Mass, Sw elling, Lump, Granulomas, P olyps, 
Fibroids & Benign T umour of the f emale genito 
urinary systemMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentCholesteatoma
3
Polycystic Ovar ian Disease
Uterine Pr olapse
Fibroids (F ibromyoma)
Breast lumps (excluding Malignant)
Dysfunctional Uter ine Bleeding (DUB)
Endometr iosis
Menor rhagia
Pelvic Inflammatory DiseaseRefractiv e Error Cor rection Correction Surgery
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Orthopedic /
RheumatologicalGout
Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthr itis
Non inf ective arthr itis
Osteoarthr itisMedical & Surgical T reatment 4
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Ankylosing Spondilitis / SpondylopathiesOsteopor osis
Prolapse of the interv ertebral disc
Spondilosis, Spondioarthr itis, Spondylopathies
Psoriatic Arthr itis / Arthr opathyMedical & Surgical T reatmentMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Hernia, Hy drocele,
Varicocoele / Sper matocoeleUrogenital (Ur inary and
Reproductiv e system)Medical & Surgical T reatment Stones in Ur inary system (Stone in the Kidney, Ur eter,
Urinary Bladder)
Benign Hypertr ophy / Enlargement of Pr ostate
(BHP / BEP)6Cirrhosis Medical & Surgical T reatment
Surgical T reatmentGastr oenter ology 
(Alimentary Canal and 
related Organs)Stone in Gall Bladder, Bile duct & other parts of 
Biliary System5
Cholecystitis
Pancreatitis
Fissure, Fistula in ano, hemor rhoids (piles), Pilonidal
Sinus, Ano-r ectal & P erianal Abscess
Rectal Pr olapse
Gastr ic or Duodenal Er osions or Ulcers + Gastr itis 
& Duodenitis & Colitis
Gastr o Esophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
Appendicular lump, Appendicular abscessInternal Derangement of Knee / Ligament or T endon 
or Meniscus T ear
Non Specific Arthr itis
Chronic AppendicitisSurgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentJoint Replacement SurgeryMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatment
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. If any of the Illness/conditions listed abo ve are Pre-Existing Diseases, then they shall be co vered only after the completion of the Pr e-
 Existing Disease W aiting P eriod descr ibed in Section D.I. 1. 
 Specified disease / pr ocedur e waiting per iod: (Code- Excl02) 
 g) Expenses r elated to the tr eatment of the listed Conditions, surger ies/tr eatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of 
  continuous co verage after the date of inception of the first policy with Us. This exclusion shall not be applicable f or claims ar ising due 
  to an accident.
 h) In case of enhancement of sum insur ed the exclusion shall apply afr esh to the extent of sum insur ed incr ease.
 i) If any of the specified disease/pr ocedur e falls under the waiting per iod specified f or pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the tw o 
  waiting per iods shall apply .
 j) The waiting per iod for listed conditions shall apply ev en if contracted after the policy or declar ed and accepted without a specific 
  exclusion.
 k) If the Insur ed Person is continuously co vered without any br eak as defined under the applicable nor ms on portability stipulated b y   
  IRDAI, then waiting per iod for the same w ould be r educed to the extent of pr ior co verage.
 l) List of specific diseases/pr ocedur es: 
            1. Genetic Disor ders
3. 30-day waiting per iod (Code- Excl03)
 i. Expenses r elated to the tr eatment of any illness within 30 days fr om the first policy commencement date shall be excluded except 
  claims ar ising due to an accident, pr ovided the same ar e covered.
 ii. This exclusion shall not, ho wever, apply if the Insur ed Person has Continuous Co verage f or mor e than tw elve months.
 iii. The within r eferred waiting per iod is made applicable to the enhanced sum insur ed in the ev ent of granting higher sum insur ed 
  subsequently .
4.  Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04) 
 a. Expenses r elated to any admission pr imarily for diagnostics and evaluation pur poses only ar e excluded.
 b. Any diagnostic expenses which ar e not r elated or not incidental to the cur rent diagnosis and tr eatment ar e excluded.
5.   Rest Cur e, rehabilitation and r espite car e (Code- Excl05)
 a) Expenses r elated to any admission pr imarily for enf orced bed r est and not f or receiving tr eatment. This also includes:
  i. Custodial car e either at home or in a nursing facility f or personal car e such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, 
   dressing, mo ving ar ound either b y skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.
  ii. Any services f or people who ar e terminally ill to addr ess physical, social, emotional and spir itual needs.
6.  Obesity/ W eight Contr ol (Code- Excl06)
 Expenses r elated to the surgical tr eatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the belo w conditions:
 1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
 2) The surgery/Pr ocedur e conducted should be supported b y clinical pr otocols
 3) The member has to be 18 y ears of age or older and
 4) Body Mass Index (BMI);
  a) greater than or equal to 40 or
  b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the f ollowing sev ere co-morbidities f ollowing failur e of less invasiv e methods 
   of weight loss:
   i. Obesity-r elated car diomy opathy
   ii. Coronary heart disease
   iii. Severe Sleep Apnea
   iv. Uncontr olled T ype2 Diabetes
7.  Change-of -Gender tr eatments: (Code- Excl07)
     Expenses r elated to any tr eatment, including surgical management, to change character istics of the body to those of the opposite sex.
8.  Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: (Code- Excl08)
 Expenses f or cosmetic or plastic surgery or any tr eatment to change appearance unless f or reconstruction f ollowing an Accident, Bur n(s) or 
 Cancer or as part of medically necessary tr eatment to r emove a dir ect and immediate health r isk to the insur ed. For this to be consider ed a 
 medical necessity, it must be certified b y the attending Medical Practitioner .
9.  Hazar dous or Adv entur e sports: (Code- Excl09)  - 
 Expenses r elated to any tr eatment necessitated due to participation as a pr ofessional in hazar dous or adv entur e sports, including but not 
 limited to, para-jumping, r ock climbing, mountaineer ing, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-
 sea diving.
10.  Breach of law: (Code- Excl10)  - 
 Expenses f or treatment dir ectly ar ising fr om or consequent upon any Insur ed Person committing or attempting to commit a br each of law 
 with cr iminal intent.
11.  Excluded Pr oviders: (Code- Excl11)
 Expenses incur red to wards treatment in any hospital or b y any Medical Practitioner or any other pr ovider specifically excluded b y the Insur er 
 as per Annexur e III of this policy and as disclosed in w ebsite (www .adityabirlahealth.com/healthinsurance) / notified to the policyholders ar e 
 not admissible. Ho wever, in case of lif e threatening situations or f ollowing an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization ar e payable 
 but not the complete claim.Medical & Surgical T reatment Skin tumour (unless malignant)
All skin diseasesSkin7
General Surgery Any sw elling, tumour, cyst, nodule, ulcer, polyp Mass ,
Swelling, Lump, Granulomas, Benign T umour 
anywher e in the body (unless malignant)8
Varicose v eins, V aricose ulcers
Internal Congenital Anomaly or inter nal congenital 
diseases Medical & Surgical T reatmentMedical & Surgical T reatment
Medical & Surgical T reatmentMedical & Surgical T reatment
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.12.  Treatment f or, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictiv e condition  and consequences ther eof. (Code- Excl12)
13.  Treatments r eceiv ed in heath hy dros, natur e cure clinics, spas or similar establishments  or pr ivate beds r egister ed as a nursing home 
 attached to such establishments or wher e admission is ar ranged wholly or partly f or domestic r easons. (Code- Excl13)
14.  Dietary supplements and substances that can be pur chased without pr escription,  including but not limited to V itamins, minerals and  
 organic substances unless pr escribed b y a medical practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day car e procedur e (Code- Excl14)
15.  Refractiv e Error:(Code- Excl15)  - Expenses r elated to the tr eatment f or cor rection of ey e sight due to r efractiv e error less than 7 .5 
 dioptr es.
16.  Unproven Treatments:(Code- Excl16)
 Expenses r elated to any unpr oven treatment, services and supplies f or or in connection with any tr eatment. Unpr oven treatments ar e 
 treatments, pr ocedur es or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their eff ectiveness.
17.  Sterility and Inf ertility: (Code- Excl17)  
 Expenses r elated to ster ility and inf ertility . This includes:
 i. Any type of contraception, ster ilization
 ii. Assisted Repr oduction services including artificial insemination and advanced r eproductiv e technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
 iii. Gestational Sur rogacy 
 iv. Reversal of ster ilization
18.  Mater nity Expenses (Code - Excl18):
 i.  Medical tr eatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliv eries and caesar ean sections incur red dur ing 
  hospitalization) except ectopic pr egnancy;
 ii. Expenses to wards miscar riage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical ter mination of pr egnancy dur ing the policy per iod.
II.  Specific Exclusions
19.  Circumstantial Exclusion  
 a. Treatment dir ectly or indir ectly ar ising fr om or consequent upon war or any act of war, invasion, act of f oreign enemy, war like 
  operations (whether war be declar ed or not or caused dur ing service in the ar med f orces of any country), civil war, public def ence, 
  rebellion, upr ising, r evolution, insur rection, military participation or inv olvement in naval, military or air f orce operation
 b. Usurped acts, nuclear w eapons / mater ials, chemical and biological w eapons, ionizing radiation, contamination b y radioactiv e mater ial 
  or radiation of any kind, nuclear fuel, nuclear waste.
 c. The Insur ed Person ’s direct participation in ter rorist acts;
20.  Behavioural Exclusions  
 a. Suicide or attempted suicide, wilfully self -inflicted injury; 
 b. Illegal act of the Insur ed Persons 
 c.  Any tr eatment f or Injury r esulting fr om the consumption of alcohol or any intoxicating substance, its intake or abuse ther eof
 d. the use of drugs (other than drugs taken under tr eatment pr escribed and dir ected b y a Medical Practitioner but not f or the tr eatment of 
  drug addiction);
21.  Medical Exclusions
 a. All routine examinations and pr eventive health check-ups
 b. Circumcisions (unless necessitated b y Illness or Injury and f orming part of tr eatment); 
 c. Conditions f or which tr eatment could hav e been done on an outpatient basis without any Hospitalization
 d. Preventive care, vaccination including inoculation and immunizations (except in case of post-bite tr eatment); any physical, psy chiatr ic 
  or psy chological examinations or testing 
 e. Admission f or nutr itional and electr olyte supplements unless certified to be r equired by the attending Medical Practitioner as a dir ect 
  consequence of an otherwise co vered claim.
 f. Exter nal Congenital Anomalies or diseases or def ects.
 g. Stem cell therap y except Hematopoietic stem cells f or bone mar row transplant f or haematological conditions) or Surgery, or gr owth 
  hormone therap y or Hor mone Replacement Therap y.
22.  Prosthesis and Devices
 a. Hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses including optometr ic therap y, multif ocal lens
 b. Wigs, or toupees, and r elated expenses.
 c. Any expenses incur red on pr osthesis, cor rective devices exter nal durable medical equipments, wheelchairs crutches, instruments used 
  in treatment of sleep apnea syndr ome or continuous ambulatory per itoneal dialysis (C.A.P .D.), devices used f or ambulatory monitor ing 
  of blood pr essur e, blood sugar, glucometers, nebulizers and oxygen concentrator f or bronchial asthma/ COPD conditions, cost of 
  cochlear implant(s) unless necessitated b y an Accident. Cost of artificial limbs, crutches or any other exter nal appliance and/or device 
  used f or diagnosis or tr eatment. Sleep-apnea and other sleep disor ders.
23.  Non-Medical expenses  
 As mentioned under Annexur e (I) List II, III & IV will be excluded unless f orms a part of In-patient hospitalization. 
24.  Specific tr eatment Exclusion
 Treatment f or Rotational F ield Quantum Magnetic Resonance (RF QMR), Exter nal Counter Pulsation (ECP), Enhanced Exter nal Counter 
 Pulsation (EECP), Hyperbar ic Oxygen Therap y, KTP Laser Surger ies, cyber knif e treatment, F emto laser surger ies, bioabsorbable stents, 
 bioabsorbable valv es, bioabsorbable implants, use of Infliximab, r ituximab, avastin, lucentis, Use of Radio F requency (RF) pr obe f or ablation.
25.  Activities and Pr ofession Exclusions
 a.  Treatment taken fr om a person not falling within the scope of definition of r egister ed Medical Practitioner with any state medical 
  council/  medical council of India.
 b.  Treatment charges or f ees charged b y any Medical Practitioner acting outside the scope of license or r egistration granted to him b y any 
  medical council.
 c. Treatments r ender ed by a Medical Practitioner who is a member of the Insur ed Person ’s immediate family or stays with him in the 
  same r esidence, except if pr e-appr oved by Us.
26.  Geographical Exclusion
 Treatment taken outside India
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.Section E: GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES
I.  Standar d General T erms and Clauses
1. Disclosur e of Inf ormation   
 The policy shall be v oid and all pr emium paid ther eon shall be f orfeited to the Company in the ev ent of misr epresentation, mis-descr iption 
 or non-disclosur e of any mater ial fact b y the policyholder .
2. Condition Pr ecedent to Admission of Liability
 The ter ms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled b y the insur ed person f or the Company to make any payment f or claim(s) ar ising 
 under the policy .
3. Complete Discharge
  Any payment to the policyholder, insur ed person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal  r epresentativ e or assignee or to the Hospital, as the 
 case may be, f or any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge to wards payment of claim b y the Company to the extent of that 
 amount f or the particular claim.
4. Multiple P olicies
 1. In case of multiple policies taken b y an insur ed person dur ing a per iod fr om one or mor e insur ers to indemnify tr eatment costs, the 
  insured person shall hav e the r ight to r equire a settlement of his/her claim in ter ms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the 
  insurer chosen b y the insur ed person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and accor ding to 
  the ter ms of the chosen policy .
 2. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also hav e the r ight to pr efer claims under this policy f or the amounts disallo wed under any 
  other policy / policies ev en if the sum insur ed is not exhausted. Then the insur er shall independently settle the claim subject to the 
  terms and conditions of this policy .
 3. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insur ed under a single policy, the insur ed person shall hav e the r ight to choose insur er 
  from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
 4. Wher e an insur ed person has policies fr om mor e than one insur er to co ver the same r isk on indemnity basis, the insur ed person shall 
  only be indemnified the tr eatment costs in accor dance with the ter ms and conditions of the chosen policy .
5. Fraud
 lf any claim made b y the insur ed person, is in any r espect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or used in support 
 thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices ar e used b y the insur ed person or any one acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under 
 this policy, all benefits under this policy and the pr emium paid shall be f orfeited.
 Any amount alr eady paid against claims made under this policy but which ar e found fraudulent later shall be r epaid b y all r ecipient(s) 
 /policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and sev erally liable f or such r epayment to the insur er.
 For the pur pose of this clause, the expr ession "fraud" means any of the f ollowing acts committed b y the insur ed person or b y his agent or 
 the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insur ed person, with intent to deceiv e the insur er or to induce the insur er to 
 issue an insurance policy:
 a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insur ed person does not believ e to be true;
 b) the activ e concealment of a fact b y the insur ed person having kno wledge or belief of the fact;
 c) any other act fitted to deceiv e; and
 d) any such act or omission as the law specially declar es to be fraudulent   
 The Company shall not r epudiate the claim and / or f orfeit the policy benefits on the gr ound of F raud, if the insur ed person / beneficiary 
 can pr ove that the misstatement was true to the best of his kno wledge and ther e was no deliberate intention to suppr ess the fact or that 
 such misstatement of or suppr ession of mater ial fact ar e within the kno wledge of the insur er.
6. Cancellation 
 1.  Cancellation b y You
  The policyholder may cancel this policy b y giving 15 days wr itten notice and in such an ev ent, the Company shall r efund pr emium f or 
  the unexpir ed policy per iod as detailed belo w  
  Notwithstanding anything contained her ein or otherwise, no r efunds of pr emium shall be made in r espect of Cancellation wher e, any 
  claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed b y the insur ed person under the policy .
TM
  Provided that in case ther e is a r equest f or Refund wher e claim has been made only under Health Assessment  (Section C.III.o) and / 
  Health Check-up Pr ogram (Section C.II.m) w e shall pr ocess the r efund in accor dance with the gr id belo w provided and after deduction 
  of the charges f or the claims made under the Sections r eferred her einabo ve.
 2.  Automatic Cancellation:
  a.  Individual & F amily P olicy: The P olicy shall automatically ter minate on the death of all Insur ed Persons. 
  b. Refund: A r efund in accor dance with the gr id abo ve shall be payable if ther e is an automatic cancellation of the P olicy pr ovided that 
   no claim has been filed under the P olicy b y or on behalf of any Insur ed Person.In force Period-Up to
1 Month
3 monthsRefund
1 Year
75.00%
50.00%
25.00%
NIL
NIL
NIL2 Year 3 Year
6 months
12 months
15 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
30+ months85.00% 90.00%
85.00%
75.00%
60.00%
50.00%
35.00%
30.00%
15.00%75.00%
60.00%
50.00%
30.00%
20.00%
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. 3.  Cancellation b y Us:
  The Company may cancel the policy at any time on gr ounds of misr epresentation non-disclosur e of mater ial facts, fraud b y the insur ed 
  person b y giving 15 days' wr itten notice. Ther e would be no r efund of pr emium on cancellation on gr ounds of misr epresentation, non 
  disclosur e of mater ial facts or fraud.
TM
 4.  Treatment of HealthRetur ns on CancellationTM
  All co verage, benefits, ear ning on HealthRetur ns, shall automatically lapse upon cancellation of the P olicy. However, any unclaimed TM
  and accrued HealthRetur ns (from pr evious P olicy Y ear/month) shall be available f or a claim o ver the next 12 month per iod fr om the 
  date of cancellation/ter mination.
7. Migration
 The insur ed person will hav e the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance pr oducts/plans off ered by the company b y applying 
 for migration of the policy at least 30 days    bef ore the policy r enewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is pr esently 
 covered and has been continuously co vered without any lapses under any health insurance pr oduct plan off ered by the company, the insur ed 
 person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting per iods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.
 For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly r efer the link  
 https://www .irdai.go v.in/ADMINCMS/cms/fr mGuidelines_Lay out.aspx?page=P ageNo3987&flag=1]
8. Portability
 The insur ed person will hav e the option to port the policy to other insur ers by applying to such insur er to port the entir e policy along with all 
 the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days bef ore, but not earlier than 60 days fr om the policy r enewal date as per IRDAI guidelines 
 related to portability . lf such person is pr esently co vered and has been continuously co vered without any lapses under any health insurance 
 policy with an lndian General/Health insur er, the pr oposed insur ed person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting per iods as per 
 IRDAI guidelines on portability .
 For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly r efer the link 
 https://www .irdai.go v.in/ADMINCMS/cms/fr mGuidelines_Lay out.aspx?page=P ageNo3987&flag=1]
9. Renewal of P olicy 
 The policy shall or dinarily be r enewable except on gr ounds of fraud, misr epresentation b y the insur ed person.
 i. The Company shall endeav our to giv e notice f or renewal. Ho wever, the Company is not under obligation to giv e any notice f or renewal.
 ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the gr ound that the insur ed person had made a claim or claims in the pr eceding policy y ears.
 iii. Request f or renewal along with r equisite pr emium shall be r eceiv ed by the Company bef ore the end of the policy per iod.
 iv. At the end of the policy per iod, the policy shall ter minate and can be r enew ed within the Grace P eriod of 30 days to maintain continuity 
  of benefits without br eak in policy . Coverage is not available dur ing the grace per iod.
 v. No loading shall apply on r enewals based on individual claims exper ience
10. Withdrawal of P olicy
 i.      ln the likelihood of this pr oduct being withdrawn in futur e, the Company will intimate the insur ed person about the same 90 days pr ior 
  to expiry of the policy . 
 ii. Insured Person will hav e the option to migrate to similar health insurance pr oduct available with the Company at the time of r enewal 
  with all the accrued continuity benefits such as No claim bonus, waiv er of waiting per iod. as per IRDAI guidelines, pr ovided the policy 
  has been maintained without a br eak.
 11. Morator ium P eriod
 After completion of eight continuous y ears under this P olicy no look back w ould be applied. This per iod of eight y ears is called as 
 ‘Morator ium P eriod’. The morator ium w ould be applicable f or the Sums Insur ed of the first P olicy with US and subsequently completion of 
 eight continuous y ears w ould be applicable fr om date of enhancement of Sum Insur ed only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of 
 Morator ium P eriod no claim under this P olicy shall be contestable except f or proven fraud and per manent exclusions specified in the P olicy. 
 The P olicy w ould ho wever be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments and deductibles as per the ter ms and conditions of the P olicy.
12. Premium P ayment in Instalments
 lf the insur ed person has opted f or Payment of Pr emium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Y early, Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the 
 policy Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the f ollowing Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any ter ms contrary elsewher e in the policy)
 i. Grace P eriod of 15 days w ould be giv en to pay the instalment pr emium due f or the policy .
 ii. During such grace per iod, co verage will not be available fr om the due date of instalment pr emium till the date of r eceipt of pr emium b y 
  Company .
 iii. The insur ed person will get the accrued continuity benefit in r espect of the "W aiting P eriods", "Specific W aiting P eriods" in the ev ent of 
  payment of pr emium within the stipulated grace P eriod.
 iv. No inter est will be charged lf the instalment pr emium is not paid on due date
 v. ln case of instalment pr emium due not r eceiv ed within the grace per iod, the policy will get cancelled.
 vi. ln the ev ent of a claim, all subsequent pr emium instalments shall immediately become due and payable.
 vii. The company has the r ight to r ecover and deduct all the pending instalments fr om the claim amount due under the policy .
13. Possibility of Revision of T erms of the P olicy lncluding the Pr emium Rates
 The Company, with pr ior appr oval of lRDAl, may r evise or modify the ter ms of the policy including the pr emium rates. The insur ed person 
 shall be notified thr ee  months bef ore the changes ar e effected.
14. Free Look P eriod 
 The F ree Look P eriod shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on r enewals or at the time of porting/migrating 
 the policy . The insur ed person shall be allo wed free look per iod of fifteen days (30 days in case of contracts with a ter m of 3 y ears, off ered 
 over distance marketing mode) fr om date of r eceipt of the policy document to r eview the ter ms and conditions of the policy, and to r eturn 
 the same if not acceptable.
 lf the insur ed has not made any claim dur ing the F ree Look P eriod, the insur ed shall be entitled to a r efund of the pr emium paid less any 
 expenses incur red by the Company on medical examination of the insur ed person and the stamp duty charges or wher e the r isk has alr eady 
 commenced and the option of r eturn of the policy is exer cised b y the insur ed person, a deduction to wards the pr oportionate r isk pr emium 
 for per iod of co ver or Wher e only a part of the insurance co verage has commenced, such pr oportionate pr emium commensurate with the 
 insurance co verage dur ing such per iod;
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.15. Redressal of Gr ievance
 In case of a gr ievance, the Insur ed Person/ P olicyholder can contact Us with the details thr ough:
 Our w ebsite:  www.adityabirlahealth.com/healthinsurance
 Toll Free : 1800 270 7000
 Email:  care.healthinsurance@adityabirlacapital.com
 Courier: Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited   9th Floor, T ower 1, One W orld Centr e, Jupiter Mills Compound, 841, Senapati Bapat 
 Marg, Elphinstone Road, Mumbai 400013.
 lnsured person may also appr oach the gr ievance cell at any of the company's branches with the details of gr ievance. lf lnsur ed person is not 
 satisfied with the r edressal of gr ievance thr ough one of the abo ve methods, insur ed person may contact the  grievance officer at 
 For updated details of gr ievance officer,  r efer the link   https://www .adityabirlacapital.com/healthinsurance/#!/homepage
 
 lf lnsur ed person is not satisfied with the r edressal of gr ievance thr ough abo ve methods, the insur ed person may also appr oach the office of 
 lnsurance Ombudsman of the r espectiv e area/region f or redressal of gr ievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. The contact 
 details of the Ombudsman offices ar e provided on Our w ebsite and in this P olicy at Annexur e III.
 Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Gr ievance Management System - https://www .igms.ir dai.go v.in/
16. Nomination:
 The policyholder is r equired at the inception of the policy to make a nomination f or the pur pose of payment of claims under the policy in the 
 event of death of the policyholder . Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company in wr iting and such change shall be 
 effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the ev ent of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as 
 named in the P olicy Schedule/P olicy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case ther e is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
 representativ es of the policyholder whose discharge shall be tr eated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy .
17. Claim Settlement (pr ovision f or Penal inter est)
 i.    The Company shall settle or r eject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days fr om the date of r eceipt of last necessary document.
 ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay inter est to the policyholder fr om the date of r eceipt 
  of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% abo ve the bank rate.
 iii. However, wher e the cir cumstances of a claim war rant an inv estigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete 
  such inv estigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days fr om the date of r eceipt of last necessary document. ln such cases, 
  the Company shall settle or r eject the claim within 45 days fr om the date of r eceipt of last necessary document.
 iv. ln case of delay bey ond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay inter est to the policyholder at a rate 2% abo ve the bank 
  rate fr om the date of r eceipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim.
 (Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed b y the Reserv e Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of the financial y ear in which claim 
 has fallen due) 
II.  Specific T erms and Clauses
18. Mater ial Change
 Mater ial inf ormation to be disclosed includes ev ery matter that Y ou ar e awar e of, or could r easonably be expected to kno w, that r elates to 
 questions in the Pr oposal F orm and which is r elevant to Us in or der to accept the r isk of insurance. Y ou must exer cise the same duty to 
 disclose those matters to Us bef ore the Renewal, extension, var iation, or endorsement of the contract. The P olicy ter ms and conditions shall 
 not be alter ed. 
19. Alterations in the P olicy
 This P olicy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or eff ective or valid unless appr oved in 
 writing b y Us, which appr oval shall be evidenced b y a wr itten endorsement, signed and stamped b y Us. 
20. No Constructiv e Notice
 Any kno wledge or inf ormation of any cir cumstance or condition in r elation to the P olicyholder/ Insur ed Person which is in Our possession 
 and not specifically inf ormed b y the P olicyholder / Insur ed Person shall not be held to bind or pr ejudicially aff ect Us notwithstanding 
 subsequent acceptance of any pr emium.
21.  Other Renewal T erms 
 (i) We shall not be liable f or any claim ar ising out of an Ailment suff ered or Hospitalization commencing or Disease/Illness/Condition 
  contracted dur ing the per iod betw een the expiry of pr evious P olicy and date of inception of subsequent P olicy and such 
  Disease/Illness/Condition shall be tr eated as a Pr e-Existing Disease. TM
 (ii) Any unutilised funds under HealthRetur ns (from the pr evious P olicy y ear/ month) will be available f or claims dur ing the Grace 
  Period. TM
 (iii) You shall not be able to ear n HealthRetur ns during the Grace P eriod. 
 (iv) In case the P olicy is not r enew ed bef ore the end of the Grace P eriod, any unutilized funds under HealthRetur nsTM shall be available f or 
  a claim as up to a per iod of 3 months fr om the date of expiry of the P olicy.
 (v) If the Insur ed Persons in the expir ing P olicy ar e covered in an Individual P olicy, and such expir ing P olicy has been Renew ed with Us on TM
  a Family Floater P olicy basis then the accumulated amount under HealthRetur ns that will be car ried forwar d in such Renew ed Policy 
  shall be the total of all the Insur ed Persons mo ving out and shall be maintained on an Individual P olicy basis.
 (vi) If the Insur ed Persons in the expir ing P olicy ar e in a F amily Floater P olicy and such Insur ed Persons r enew their expir ing P olicy with Us 
  by splitting the Sum Insur ed in to tw o or mor e Family Floater P olicy/ Individual P olicies then the accumulated amount under TM
  HealthRetur ns shall be apportioned to such Renew ed Policies in the pr oportion of the Sum Insur ed of each Renew ed Policy.
 (vii) Alterations like incr ease/ decr ease in Sum Insur ed or Change in Plan/Pr oduct, addition/deletion of Insur ed Persons (except due to 
  child Birth/Mar riage or Death) will be allo wed at the time of Renewal of the P olicy. You can submit a r equest f or the changes b y filling 
  the Pr oposal F orm bef ore the expiry of the P olicy. We reserv e Our r ight to car ry out underwr iting in r elation to acceptance of r equest 
  for changes on Renewal. The T erms and Conditions of the existing P olicy will not be alter ed.
 (viii) Any enhanced Sum Insur ed dur ing any P olicy Renewals will not be available f or an Illness, disease, Injury alr eady contracted under the 
  preceding P olicy P eriods. All waiting per iods as mentioned belo w shall apply afr esh for this enhanced limit fr om the eff ective date of 
  such enhancement. 
 (ix) Wher ever the Sum Insur ed is r educed on any P olicy Renewals, the waiting per iods as mentioned in the P olicy Schedule shall be waiv ed 
  only up to the lo west Sum Insur ed as applicable to the r elevant waiting per iods of the Plan in f orce.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223. (x) Wher e an Insur ed Person is added to this P olicy, either b y way of endorsement, all waiting per iods under Section D.I.1, D.I.2, D.I.3
  will be applicable consider ing such P olicy Y ear as the first y ear of P olicy with Us with r espect to the Insur ed Person.
 (xi) Applicable No Claim Bonus shall be accrued on each Renewal as per eligibility under the plan in f orce.
 (xii) In case of F amily Floater P olicies, childr en attaining 25 y ears at the time of Renewal will be mo ved out of the floater into an individual 
  cover. However, all continuity benefits f or such Insur ed Person on the P olicy will r emain intact. No Claim Bonus ear ned on the P olicy 
  will stay with the Insur ed Persons(s) co vered under the or iginal P olicy.
22. Recor ds to be maintained  
 You or the Insur ed Person, as the case may be shall keep an accurate r ecord containing all r elevant medical r ecords and shall allo w Us or Our 
 representativ e(s) to inspect such r ecords. You or the Insur ed Person as the case may be, shall fur nish such inf ormation as may be r equired by 
 Us under this P olicy at any time dur ing the P olicy P eriod and up to thr ee years after the P olicy expiration, or until final adjustment (if any) 
 and r esolution of all claims under this P olicy.
23. Endorsements
 The P olicy shall allo w the f ollowing endorsements dur ing the P olicy P eriod. Any r equest f or endorsement must be made b y You in wr iting 
 along with the mandatory documents. Any endorsement w ould be eff ective from the date of the r equest as r eceiv ed from You, or the date of 
 receipt of pr emium, whichev er is later except in the case of date of birth and gender cor rection in which the endorsement eff ective date will 
 be the P olicy Start Date or the date of Renewal.
 (i)  Non-F inancial Endorsements – which do not aff ect the pr emium.  
  1) Minor r ectification/cor rection in name of the Pr oposer / Insur ed Person (and not the complete name change)
  2) Rectification in gender of the Pr oposer/ Insur ed Person (if this does not impact the pr emium) *
  3) Rectification in r elationship of the Insur ed Person with the Pr oposer
  4) Rectification of date of birth of the Insur ed Person (if this does not impact the pr emium) *
  5) Change in the cor respondence addr ess of the Pr oposer 
  6)  Change/Updation in the contact details viz., Phone No., E-mail Id, alter nate contact addr ess of the Pr oposer etc.
  7)  Change in Nominee Details
  8)  Updation of P AN/passport/EIA/CKY C No.
  9)  Change in Height, w eight, mar ital status (if this does not impact the pr emium) *
  10)  Change in bank details
  11)  Change in educational qualification
  12)  Change in occupation
  13)  Change in Nationality
  14)  Others
 * These endorsements, if impact the pr emium, and if accepted, shall be eff ective from the Start Date of the P olicy.
 (ii)  Financial Endorsements – which r esult in alteration in pr emium.  
  (1)  Addition of Insur ed Person^ (newly w edded spouse)
  (2)  Deletion of Insur ed Person on death or separation or P olicyholder/Insur ed Person leaving India
  (3)  Change in Age/date of birth*
  (4)  Change in Height, w eight*
  (5)  Others
 * These endorsements, if impact the pr emium, and if accepted, shall be eff ective from the Start Date of the P olicy. 
 ^ The P olicyholder should pr ovide a fr esh application in a pr oposal f orm along with mar riage certificate as the case may be f or addition of 
 Insured person.
 All endorsement r equests may be assessed b y Us and if r equired additional inf ormation/documents may be r equested. 
24. Grace P eriod
 The P olicy may be Renew ed by mutual consent and in such ev ent the Renewal pr emium should be paid to Us on or bef ore the expiry date of 
 the P olicy and in no case later than the Grace P eriod of 30 days fr om the expiry date. W e shall not be liable to pay f or any claim ar ising out 
 of an Illness/Injury/ Accident that occur red dur ing the Grace P eriod. The pr ovisions of Section 64VB of the Insurance Act 1938 shall be 
 applicable. All policies Renew ed within the Grace P eriod shall be eligible f or continuity of co ver. If the P olicy is not Renew ed within the Grace 
 Period then W e may agr ee to issue a fr esh P olicy subject to Our underwr iting guidelines and no continuity of benefits shall be available fr om 
 the expir ed Policy.
25. Communications & Notices 
 Any communication or notice or instruction under this P olicy shall be in wr iting and will be sent to:
 (i) The P olicyholder’s, at the addr ess/ E-mail ID as specified in the P olicy Schedule/Pr oposal f orm or pr ovided to Us b y the P olicyholder / 
  Insured Person 
 (ii) To Us, at the addr ess specified in the Schedule.
 (iii) No insurance agents, br okers, other person or entity is author ised to r eceiv e any notice on the behalf of Us unless explicitly stated in 
  writing b y Us.
26. Electr onic T ransactions
 The P olicyholder and the Insur ed agr ee to adher e and comply with all such ter ms and conditions of electr onic transactions as W e may 
 prescribe fr om time to time, and her eby agrees and confir ms that all transactions eff ected b y or thr ough facilities f or conducting r emote  
 transactions including the inter net, W orld W ide W eb, electr onic data inter change, call centr es, tele-service operations (whether v oice, video, 
 data or combination ther eof) or b y means of electr onic, computer, automated machines netw ork or thr ough other means of 
 telecommunication, established b y or on behalf of Us, f or and in r espect of the P olicy or its ter ms, or Our other pr oducts and services, shall 
 constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adher ence to and in compliance with Our ter ms and conditions f or such 
 facilities, as may be pr escribed fr om time to time.
 Sales thr ough such electr onic transactions shall ensur e that all conditions of Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 pr escribed f or the 
 proposal f orm and all necessary disclosur es on ter ms and conditions and exclusions ar e made kno wn to the P olicyholder . A voice r ecording in 
 case of tele-sales or other evidence f or sales thr ough the Inter net shall be maintained and such consent shall be subsequently validated / 
 confir med b y the P olicyholder .
27. Policy Dispute 
 Any dispute concer ning the inter pretation of the ter ms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions contained her ein shall be go verned b y 
 Indian law and shall be subject to the jur isdiction of the Indian Courts.
28. Assignment
 The P olicy and the benefits under this P olicy may be assigned in whole or in part.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.29. Territorial Jur isdiction
 All benefits ar e available in India only (except Section C. II.(P), and all claims shall be payable in India in Indian Rupees only . 
30. Sequence of Sum Insur ed Utilisation
 The utilisation of Sum Insur ed and limits ther eof as applicable acr oss var ious Benefits shall be as f ollows:
 (i) Sum Insur ed
 (ii) Accumulated No Claim Bonus
 (iii)  Accumulated Super No Claim Bonus
 (iv)  (Binge Refill) Refill of Sum Insur ed
 In the af oresaid sequence of utilization of Sum Insur ed, in case insur ed person has utilized a specific limit or is not eligible f or a specific 
 limit, then may choose to utilize fr om the next available limit in the giv en sequence as may be applicable.
31.  Premium thr ough National Automated Clear ing House (NACH)/ Standing Instruction (SI) pr ovided that Y ou may pay the pr emium 
 through National Automated Clear ing House (NACH)/ Standing Instruction (SI) pr ovided that:
 NACH/Standing Instruction Mandate f orm is completely filled & signed b y You.
 The Pr emium amount which w ould be auto debited & fr equency of instalment is duly filled in the mandate f orm.
 New Mandate F orm is r equired to be filled in case of any change in the P olicy T erms and Conditions whether or not leading to change in 
 Premium.
 You need to inf orm us at least 15 days pr ior to the due date of instalment pr emium if Y ou wish to discontinue with the NACH/ Standing 
 Instruction facility .
 Non-payment of pr emium on due date as opted b y You in the mandate f orm subject to an additional r enewal/ r evival per iod will lead to 
 termination of the policy
Section F: OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS   
1.  Claims Administration & Pr ocess
 The fulfillment of the ter ms and conditions of this P olicy (including payment of pr emium in full and on time) insofar as they r elate to 
 anything to be done or complied with b y You or any Insur ed Person, including complying with the f ollowing in r elation to claims, shall be 
 conditions pr ecedent to admission of Our liability under this P olicy:
 (1)  On the occur rence or disco very of any Illness or Injury that may giv e rise to a Claim under this P olicy, the Claims Pr ocedur e set out 
  below shall be f ollowed.
 (2)  If requested b y Us and at Our cost, the Insur ed Person must submit to medical examination b y Our Medical Practitioner as often as W e 
  consider r easonable and necessary and W e/Our r epresentativ es must be per mitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization r ecords 
  pertaining to the Insur ed Person ’s treatment and to inv estigate the cir cumstances pertaining to the claim.
 (3)  We and Our r epresentativ es must be giv en all r easonable co-operation in inv estigating the claim in or der to assess Our liability and 
  quantum in r espect of the claim.
I. Claims Pr ocedur e 
 On the occur rence or the disco very of any Illness or Injury that may giv e rise to a claim under this P olicy, then as a Condition Pr ecedent to 
 Our liability under the P olicy the f ollowing pr ocedur e shall be complied with: 
 a.  For Availing Cashless F acility
  i. Cashless F acilities can be availed only at Our Netw ork Pr oviders/ Empanelled Service Pr oviders. The complete list of Netw ork 
   Providers and Empaneled Service Pr oviders is available on Our w ebsite and at Our branches and can also be obtained b y contacting
   Us over the telephone. 
  ii. We reserv e the r ight to modify, add or r estrict any Netw ork Pr ovider/ Empaneled Service Pr ovider f or Cashless F acilities at Our sole 
   discretion. Bef ore availing Cashless F acilities, please check the applicable updated list of Netw ork Pr oviders.
 b.  Process f or Obtaining Pr e-Author isation f or Planned T reatment:  
  (i) We must be contacted to pr e-author ise Cashless F acility f or planned tr eatment at least 72 hours pr ior to the pr oposed tr eatment. 
   Each r equest f or pre-author isation must be accompanied with all the f ollowing details:
   (1)   The health car d issued b y Us to the Insur ed Person, along with the Insur ed Person ’s KYC documents.
   (2) The P olicy Number;
   (3) Name of the P olicyholder; 
   (4) Name and addr ess of Insur ed Person in r espect of whom the r equest is being made;
   (5) Natur e of the Illness/Injury and the tr eatment/Surgery r equired;
   (6) Name and addr ess of the attending Medical Practitioner;
   (7) Hospital wher e treatment/Surgery is pr oposed to be taken;
   (8) Proposed date of admission.
  (ii) If these details ar e not pr ovided in full or ar e insufficient f or Us to consider the r equest, W e will r equest additional inf ormation or 
   documentation in r espect of that r equest.
  (iii) When w e hav e obtained sufficient details to assess the r equest, W e will issue the author ization letter specifying the sanctioned 
   amount, any specific limitation on the claim and non-payable items, if applicable, or r eject the r equest f or pre-author isation 
   specifying r easons f or the r ejection. 
  (iv) The Author ization letter shall be issued to the Netw ork Pr ovider within 24 hours of r eceiving the complete inf ormation.
 c.  Process to be f ollowed for Availing Cashless F acilities in Emergencies:
  (i) We must be contacted to pr e-author ise Cashless F acility within 24 hours of the Insur ed Person ’s Hospitalization if the Insur ed 
   Person has been Hospitalized in an Emergency . Each r equest f or pre-author isation must be accompanied with all the f ollowing 
   details:
   (1) The health car d issued b y Us to the Insur ed Person, along with the Insur ed Person ’s KYC documents.
   (2) The P olicy Number;
   (3) Name of the P olicyholder;
   (4) Name and addr ess of Insur ed Person in r espect of whom the r equest is being made;
   (5) Natur e of the Illness/Injury and the tr eatment/Surgery r equired;
   (6) Name and addr ess of the attending Medical Practitioner;
   (7) Hospital wher e treatment/Surgery is to be taken;
   (8) Date of admission. 
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.  (ii) If these details ar e not pr ovided in full or ar e insufficient f or Us to consider the r equest, W e will r equest additional inf ormation or 
   documentation in r espect of that r equest.
  (iii) When w e hav e obtained sufficient details to assess the r equest, W e will issue the author ization letter specifying the sanctioned 
   amount, any specific limitation on the claim and non-payable items, if applicable, or r eject the r equest f or pre-author isation 
   specifying r easons f or the r ejection. 
  (iv) Once the r equest f or pre-author isation has been granted, the tr eatment must take place within 15 days of the pr e-author ization 
   date at a Netw ork Pr ovider and pr e-author ization shall be valid only if all the details of the author ized tr eatment, including dates, 
   Hospital and locations, match with the details of the actual tr eatment r eceiv ed. For Hospitalization wher e Cashless F acility is pr e-
   author ised b y Us, W e will make the payment of the amounts assessed to be due dir ectly to the Netw ork Pr ovider.
  (v) The Author ization letter shall be issued to the Netw ork Pr ovider within 24 hours of r eceiving the complete inf ormation.
 d.  For Reimbursement Claims: 
  (i) For all claims f or which Cashless F acilities hav e not been pr e-author ised or f or which tr eatment has not been taken at a Netw ork 
   Provider, W e shall be giv en wr itten notice of the claim along with the f ollowing details within 48 hours of admission to the Hospital 
   or bef ore discharge fr om the Hospital, whichev er is earlier:
   (1) The P olicy Number;
   (2) Name of the P olicyholder;
   (3) Name and addr ess of the Insur ed Person in r espect of whom the r equest is being made;
   (4) Health Car d, Photo ID, KY C documents
   (5) Natur e of Illness or Injury and the tr eatment/Surgery taken;
   (6) Name and addr ess of the attending Medical Practitioner;
   (7)  Hospital wher e treatment/Surgery was taken;
   (8) Date of admission and date of discharge;
   (9) Any other inf ormation that may be r elevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalization.
  (ii) If the claim is not notified to Us within the earlier of 48 hours of the Insur ed Person ’s admission to the Hospital or bef ore the 
   Insured Person ’s discharge fr om the Hospital, then W e shall be pr ovided the r easons f or the delay in wr iting. W e will condone such 
   delay on mer its wher e the delay has been pr oved to be f or reasons bey ond the claimant’s contr ol.
II. Claims Documentation:  
 We shall be pr ovided the f ollowing necessary inf ormation and documentation in r espect of all Claims at Y our/Insur ed Person ’s expense 
 within 30 days of the Insur ed Person ’s discharge fr om Hospital: 
 (i) Claims f or Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses and P ost-Hospitalization Medical Expenses to be submitted to us within 30 days of 
  the completion of the post Hospitalization tr eatment.
 (ii) For those claims f or which the use of Cashless F acility has been author ised, w e will be pr ovided these documents b y the Netw ork 
  Provider immediately f ollowing the Insur ed Person ’s discharge fr om Hospital:
  (1) Duly signed, stamped and completed Claim F orm 
  (2) Photo ID & Age Pr oof
  (3) Copy of claim intimation letter / r eference of Claim Intimation Number in the absence of main claim documents)
  (4) Copy of the Netw ork Pr ovider’s Registration Certificate / Cop y of F orm C in case of Hospitalization
  (5) Original Discharge Car d / Day Car e Summary / T ransf er Summary
  (6) Original final Hospital Bill with all or iginal deposit and final payment r eceipt
  (7) Original inv oice with payment r eceipt and implant stickers f or all implants used dur ing surger ies i.e. lens sticker and inv oice in 
   cataract Surgery, stent inv oice and sticker in Angioplasty Surgery .
  (8) All pr evious consultation papers indicating history and tr eatment details f or cur rent ailment
  (9) All or iginal diagnostic r eports (including imaging and laboratory) along with Medical Practitioner’s pr escription and inv oice / bill 
   with r eceipt fr om diagnostic center
  (10) All or iginal medicine / phar macy bills along with Medical Practitioner’s pr escription
  (11) MLC / FIR Cop y – in Accidental cases only
  (12) Copy of Death Summary and cop y of Death Certificate (in death claims only)
  (13) Pre and P ost-Operativ e Imaging r eports – in Accidental cases only
  (14) Copy of indoor case papers with nursing sheet detailing medical history of the patient, tr eatment details, and patient’s pr ogress (if 
   available).
  (15) Original inv oice f or Vaccination and payment r eceipt
  (16) KYC documents
  (17)  Additional Claim documents f or Section C.I.(g) Road Ambulance
   o Photocop y of discharge car d 
   o Original Ambulance inv oice & paid r eceipt 
      (18) Additional Claim documents f or Section IV : Optional Co vers (t) T ravel Protect It is a Condition Pr ecedent to Our liability under this 
   Optional Benefit that the f ollowing necessary inf ormation and documentation shall be submitted to Us or the Assistance Service 
   Provider immediately and in any ev ent within 30 days of the ev ent giving r ise to the Claim under this Optional Benefit   
        t.a  Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage Benefit
    (i)  Property ir regular ity report issued b y the appr opriate author ity
    (ii) A valid ticket / pr oof of trav el to the location the Insur ed Person is trav eling as a bona fide passenger .  
    (iii) Voucher of the Common Car rier for the compensation paid f or the non-deliv ery/short deliv ery of the Checked-In 
     Baggage; / short deliv ery of the Checked-In Baggage
   t.b Delay of Checked-in Baggage
    (i)  Property ir regular ity report issued b y the appr opriate author ity stating the scheduled time of deliv ery and actual time of 
     delivery of the Checked-In Baggage
    (ii) Copies of cor respondence exchanged, if any, with the Common Car rier in connection with the delay in deliv ery of the 
     Checked-In Baggage;
    (iiii) A valid ticket / pr oof of trav el to the location the Insur ed Person is trav eling as a bona F ide Passenger
    (iv) Voucher of the Common Car rier for the delay in deliv ery of the Checked-In Baggage
   t.c Trip Cancellation & Inter ruption
    (i)  Confir mation in wr iting of cancellation of the jour ney fr om the Common Car rier detailing he cir cumstances of 
     cancellation/inter ruption;
    (ii) Ticket / boar ding pass issued b y the Common Car rier indicating the cost of ticket of the jour ney indicating cancellation 
     charges r etained b y the Common Car rier.
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.    (iii) A declaration fr om the Insur ed Person fur nishing the cir cumstances that compelled him/her to cancel the jour ney;
    (iv) Medical evidence as may be r equired in case of the cancellation of the jour ney ar ising out of personal contingencies of 
     the Insur ed Person or his/her Immediate F amily Member;
    (v) Death certificate (if applicable).
   t.d Trip Delay   
    (i)  Certificate fr om the Common Car rier confir ming the delay and detailing the cir cumstances of delay .
    (ii) Copy ticket f or the common car rier
   t.e Missed Flight Connection
    (i) Confir mation fr om the Common Car rier of the delay as to the expected time of ar rival and the actual time of ar rival at 
      Place of Destination;
    (ii) Copy of unused ticket f or the missed common car rier
    (iii) Certificate fr om the Common Car rier of the missed common car rier that the far e for the part of the Jour ney co vered by 
     the missed flight is f orfeited in full or in part together with the amount of f orfeiture;
    (iv) Original used ticket obtained afr esh to wards the alter native common car rier for the part of the jour ney co vered 
     indicating the amount paid as far e.
  (19)   Additional Claim documents f or Section IV : Optional Co vers (u) Pr emium W aiver
           A.   If an Insur ed Person is diagnosed f or the first time with or f or any of the listed (20) Cr itical Illnesses dur ing the policy per iod, 
    the following document need to be submitted if Pr emium waiv er optional co ver is opted. 
    (i)  Claim F orm (in or iginal) duly completed and signed as pr escribed b y Us
    (ii) Photo ID and Age pr oof of Insur ed Person / Nominee (if Insur ed Person is not aliv e)
    (iii) Copy of the claim intimation, if any
    (iv) Final Hospital bill
    (v) Hospital discharge summary / day car e summary / transf er summary 
    (vi) Operation theatr e notes
    (vii) Investigation r eports (Including CT scan/ MRI /USG / Histopathology or Biopsy r eport)
    (viii) Doctor’s pr escriptions
    (ix)  Cancelled cheque f or NEFT
    (x) Others
   B.    If the insur ed person suff ers an Injury due to an Accident r esulting in the P ermanent T otal Disablement of the Insur ed Person 
    which is of the natur e specified within 365 days fr om the date of the Accident, then submit f ollowing document
    (i) Attested cop y of disability certificate issued b y civil surgeon of distr ict Hospital mentioning the type and per centage of 
     disability .
    (ii) Original photograph of the Insur ed Person r eflecting the disablement or injur ed part f or which the claim is made
    (iii) Leave records with seal and signatur e of author ized signatory of the organization (if emplo yed)
    (iv) Salary slips f or last 3 months with seal and signatur e of author ized signatory of the organization (if emplo yed)
    (v) Last 3 y ears financial y ears income tax r eturn for self -emplo yed persons
    (vi) Copies of medical documents to wards treatment taken dur ing disability per iod, including discharge summary of the 
     Hospital
    (vii) Copy of indoor case papers with nursing sheet detailing medical history of the patient, tr eatment details and patient’s 
     progress (wher e the discharge summary is not detailed) (if available)
  (20)  Additional Claim documents f or Section IV : Optional Co vers (v) EMI Pr otection
   (i) Claim F orm (in or iginal) duly completed and signed as pr escribed b y Us
   (ii) Photo ID and Age pr oof of Insur ed Person / Nominee (if Insur ed Person is not aliv e)
   (iii)  Claim intimation or claim r eference number
   (iv)  Current Outstanding Loan Certificate fr om financer, along with copies of documents submitted 
   (v) Loan disbursement letter along with payment r ecord till the date of Accident
   (vi) Repayment schedule sho wing the EMI details
    (21)  In case of Multiple P olicy claims:
    - Photocop y of entir e claim document duly attested b y previous Insur er or TP A
                - Original payment r eceipts f or expenses not claimed/settled b y previous insur er
   - Discharge v oucher/settlement letter b y previous insur er
  
  Note - F or acceptance of claims in electr onic mode, the documents shall be submitted in such f orm (Soft cop y or Har d cop y) and in 
      manner as may be specified b y Us.
  For the f ollowing Claims, please notify the same at our call centr e/website/e-mail TM
  -  Health Assessment  Section C.III.(o)TM
  -  HealthRetur ns Section C.III.(p)
  -  Health Check-up Pr ogram Section C.II.(m)
III.  Claims Assessment & Repudiation:
 For details on the claims pr ocess or assistance dur ing the pr ocess, Y ou may contact Us at Our call centr e on the toll fr ee number specified in 
 the P olicy Schedule or thr ough the w ebsite. In addition, W e will keep Y ou inf ormed of the claim status and explain r equirement of 
 documents. Such means of communication shall include but not be limited to mediums such as letters, email, SMS messages, and 
 information on Our W ebsite.  
Activ F it (Young Adult Pr oduct), Pr oduct UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.
Contact us:
1800 270 7000
Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited. IRDAI Reg.153. CIN No. U66000MH2015PLC263677.
Product Name: Activ Fit (Y oung Adult Product), Product UIN: ADIHLIP22008V012223.
Address: 9th Floor , Tower 1, One W orld Centre, Jupiter Mills Compound, 841, Senapati Bapat Mar g, Elphinstone
Road, Mumbai 400013. Email: care.healthinsurance@adityabirlacapital.com, Website: adityabirlahealthinsurance.com,
Telephone: 1800 270 7000. Trademark/Logo Aditya Birla Capital is owned by Aditya Birla Management Corporation 
Private Limited and Trademark/logo HealthReturns, Healthy Heart Score and Active Dayz are owned by Momentum 
Metropolitan Life Limited (Formerly known as MMI Group Limited). These trademark/Logos are being used by Aditya 
Birla Health Insurance Co. Limited under licensed user agreement(s).